docs/sdks/languages/java.mdx, before:

---
title: "Infisical Java SDK"
sidebarTitle: "Java"
icon: "/images/sdks/languages/java.svg"
---

If you're working with Java, the official Infisical Java SDK package is the easiest way to fetch and work with secrets for your application. 

## Installation

Replace `{version}` with the version of the SDK you wish to use. This documentation covers version >=3.0.0.

### Maven

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.infisical</groupId>
    <artifactId>sdk</artifactId>
    <version>{version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle
```gradle
  implementation group: 'com.infisical', name: 'sdk', version: '{version}'
```


### Others
For other build tools, please check our [package snippets](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/com.infisical/sdk), and select the build tool you're using for your project.



## Getting Started

```java
package com.example.example;

import com.infisical.sdk.InfisicalSdk;
import com.infisical.sdk.SdkConfig;

public class Example {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    var sdk = new InfisicalSdk(
      new SdkConfig.Builder()
        // Optional, will default to https://app.infisical.com
        .withSiteUrl("https://your-infisical-instance.com")
        .build()
    );

    sdk.Auth().UniversalAuthLogin(
      "CLIENT_ID",
      "CLIENT_SECRET"
    );

    var secret = sdk.Secrets().GetSecret(
      "<secret-name>",
      "<project-id>",
      "<env-slug>",
      "<secret-path>",
      null, // Expand Secret References (boolean, optional)
      null, // Include Imports (boolean, optional)
      null  // Secret Type (shared/personal, defaults to shared, optional)
      );


    System.out.println(secret);
  }
}
```

## Core Methods

The SDK methods are organized into the following high-level categories:

1. `Auth()`: Handles authentication methods.
2. `Secrets()`: Manages CRUD operations for secrets.

### `Auth`

The `Auth` component provides methods for authentication:

### Universal Auth

#### Authenticating

```java
public void UniversalAuthLogin(
  String clientId,
  String clientSecret
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().UniversalAuthLogin(
  "CLIENT_ID",
  "CLIENT_SECRET"
);
```


**Parameters:**
- `clientId` (string): The client ID of your Machine Identity.
- `clientSecret` (string): The client secret of your Machine Identity.

#### Revoking

```java
public void RevokeToken(
  String accessToken
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().RevokeToken("ACCESS_TOKEN");
```

**Parameters:**
- `accessToken` (String): The access token to revoke.

### AWS Auth

```java
public void AwsAuthLogin(
  String identityId
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().AwsAuthLogin("<machine-identity-id>");
```

**Parameters:**
- `identityId` (String): The ID of the machine identity to authenticate with.

### LDAP Auth

```java
public void LdapAuthLogin(
  LdapAuthLoginInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = LdapAuthLoginInput
  .builder()
  .identityId("<machine-identity-id>")
  .username("<ldap-username>")
  .password("<ldap-password>")
  .build();

sdk.Auth().LdapAuthLogin(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (LdapAuthLoginInput): The input for authenticating with LDAP.
  - `identityId` (String): The ID of the machine identity to authenticate with.
  - `username` (String): The LDAP username.
  - `password` (String): The LDAP password.

### Access Token Auth

#### Authenticating

```java
public void SetAccessToken(
  String accessToken
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().SetAccessToken("ACCESS_TOKEN");
```

**Parameters:**
- `accessToken` (string): The access token you want to use for authentication.

### `Secrets`

This sub-class handles operations related to secrets:

#### List Secrets

```java
public List<Secret> ListSecrets(
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    Boolean expandSecretReferences,
    Boolean recursive,
    Boolean includeImports,
    Boolean setSecretsOnSystemProperties
)

throws InfisicalException
```

```java
List<Secret> secrets = sdk.Secrets().ListSecrets(
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  false, // Should expand secret references
  false, // Should get secrets recursively from sub folders
  false, // Should include imports
  false // Should set the fetched secrets as key/value pairs on the system properties. Makes the secrets accessible as System.getProperty("<secret-key>")
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to list secrets (e.g., "dev").
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secrets.
- `expandSecretReferences` (boolean): Whether to expand secret references.
- `recursive` (boolean): Whether to list secrets recursively.
- `includeImports` (boolean): Whether to include imported secrets.
- `setSecretsOnSystemProperties` (boolean): Set the retrieved secrets as key/value pairs on the system properties, making them accessible through `System.getProperty("<secret-key>")`

**Returns:**
- `List<Secret>`: The response containing the list of secrets.

#### Create Secret


```java
public Secret CreateSecret(
    String secretName,
    String secretValue,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret newSecret = sdk.Secrets().CreateSecret(
  "NEW_SECRET_NAME",
  "secret-value",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to create
- `secretValue` (string): The value of the secret.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to create the secret.
- `secretPath` (string, optional): The path to the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The created secret.

#### Update Secret

```java
public Secret UpdateSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    String newSecretValue,
    String newSecretName
  )
    
throws InfisicalException
```


```java
Secret updatedSecret = sdk.Secrets().UpdateSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  "NEW_SECRET_VALUE", // nullable
  "NEW_SECRET_NAME" // nullable
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to update.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to update the secret.
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secret.
- `newSecretValue` (string, nullable): The new value of the secret.
- `newSecretName` (string, nullable): A new name for the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The updated secret.

#### Get Secret by Name

```java
public Secret GetSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    Boolean expandSecretReferences,
    Boolean includeImports,
    String secretType
  )
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret secret = sdk.Secrets().GetSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  false, // Should expand secret references
  false, // Should get secrets recursively from sub folders
  false, // Should include imports
  "shared" // Optional Secret Type (defaults to "shared")
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to get`
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to retrieve the secret.
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secret.
- `expandSecretReferences` (boolean, optional): Whether to expand secret references.
- `includeImports` (boolean, optional): Whether to include imported secrets.
- `secretType` (personal | shared, optional): The type of secret to fetch.


**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The fetched secret.

#### Delete Secret by Name

```java
public Secret DeleteSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath
  )
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret deletedSecret = sdk.Secrets().DeleteSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME", 
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to delete.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to delete the secret.
- `secretPath` (string, optional): The path to the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The deleted secret.


### `Folders`

#### Get Folder By Name 

```java
public Folder Get(
  String folderId
);
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Folder folder = sdk.Folders().Get("<folder-id>");
```

**Parameters:**
- `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to retrieve.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The retrieved folder.

#### List Folders

```java
public List<Folder> List(
  ListFoldersInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
ListFoldersInput input = ListFoldersInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .recursive(false)
  .build();

List<Folder> folders = sdk.Folders().List(input);
```


**Parameters:**
- `input` (ListFoldersInput): The input for listing folders.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project to list folders from.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment to list folders from.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path to list folders from. Defaults to `/`.
  - `recursive` (Boolean): Whether or not to list sub-folders recursively from the specified folder path and downwards. Defaults to `false`.

**Returns:**
- `List<Folder>`: The retrieved folders.

#### Create Folder

```java
public Folder Create(
  CreateFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = CreateFolderInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderName("<folder-name>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .description("Optional folder description")
  .build();

Folder createdFolder = sdk.Folders().Create(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (CreateFolderInput): The input for creating a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project to create the folder in.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment to create the folder in.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path to create the folder in. Defaults to `/`.
  - `folderName` (String): The name of the folder to create.
  - `description` (String): The description of the folder to create. This is optional.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The created folder.

#### Update Folder

```java
public Folder Update(
  UpdateFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = UpdateFolderInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderId("<id-of-folder-to-update>")
  .newFolderName("<the-new-folder-name>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .build();

Folder updatedFolder = sdk.Folders().Update(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (UpdateFolderInput): The input for updating a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project where the folder exists.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment where the folder exists.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path of the folder to update.
  - `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to update.
  - `newFolderName` (String): The new folder name.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The updated folder.

#### Delete Folder

```java
public Folder Delete(
  DeleteFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = DeleteFolderInput
  .builder()
  .folderId("<the-folder-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .build();

Folder deletedFolder = sdk.Folders().Delete(input);
```


**Parameters:**
- `input` (DeleteFolderInput): The input for deleting a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project where the folder exists.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment where the folder exists.
  - `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to delete.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The deleted folder.

Commit message:

docs(java-sdk): document no-arg RevokeToken and GetAccessToken

docs/sdks/languages/java.mdx, after:

---
title: "Infisical Java SDK"
sidebarTitle: "Java"
icon: "/images/sdks/languages/java.svg"
---

If you're working with Java, the official Infisical Java SDK package is the easiest way to fetch and work with secrets for your application. 

## Installation

Replace `{version}` with the version of the SDK you wish to use. This documentation covers version >=3.0.0.

### Maven

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.infisical</groupId>
    <artifactId>sdk</artifactId>
    <version>{version}</version>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle
```gradle
  implementation group: 'com.infisical', name: 'sdk', version: '{version}'
```


### Others
For other build tools, please check our [package snippets](https://central.sonatype.com/artifact/com.infisical/sdk), and select the build tool you're using for your project.



## Getting Started

```java
package com.example.example;

import com.infisical.sdk.InfisicalSdk;
import com.infisical.sdk.SdkConfig;

public class Example {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    var sdk = new InfisicalSdk(
      new SdkConfig.Builder()
        // Optional, will default to https://app.infisical.com
        .withSiteUrl("https://your-infisical-instance.com")
        .build()
    );

    sdk.Auth().UniversalAuthLogin(
      "CLIENT_ID",
      "CLIENT_SECRET"
    );

    var secret = sdk.Secrets().GetSecret(
      "<secret-name>",
      "<project-id>",
      "<env-slug>",
      "<secret-path>",
      null, // Expand Secret References (boolean, optional)
      null, // Include Imports (boolean, optional)
      null  // Secret Type (shared/personal, defaults to shared, optional)
      );


    System.out.println(secret);
  }
}
```

## Core Methods

The SDK methods are organized into the following high-level categories:

1. `Auth()`: Handles authentication methods.
2. `Secrets()`: Manages CRUD operations for secrets.

### `GetAccessToken`

Returns the access token currently stored in the SDK session. This is useful when you need to retrieve the token that was set by a login method or `SetAccessToken`.

```java
public String GetAccessToken()
```

```java
String token = sdk.GetAccessToken();
```

**Returns:**
- `String`: The access token currently stored in the SDK, or `null` if no token has been set.

### `Auth`

The `Auth` component provides methods for authentication:

### Universal Auth

#### Authenticating

```java
public void UniversalAuthLogin(
  String clientId,
  String clientSecret
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().UniversalAuthLogin(
  "CLIENT_ID",
  "CLIENT_SECRET"
);
```


**Parameters:**
- `clientId` (string): The client ID of your Machine Identity.
- `clientSecret` (string): The client secret of your Machine Identity.

#### Revoking

```java
// No-arg: revokes the current session token stored in the SDK
public void RevokeToken()
throws InfisicalException

// Explicit: revokes a specific access token
public void RevokeToken(
  String accessToken
)
throws InfisicalException
```

The recommended approach is to call `RevokeToken()` without arguments, which revokes the token currently stored in the SDK session:

```java
sdk.Auth().RevokeToken();
```

Alternatively, you can pass an explicit access token to revoke:

```java
sdk.Auth().RevokeToken("ACCESS_TOKEN");
```

**Parameters (explicit variant):**
- `accessToken` (String): The access token to revoke.

### AWS Auth

```java
public void AwsAuthLogin(
  String identityId
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().AwsAuthLogin("<machine-identity-id>");
```

**Parameters:**
- `identityId` (String): The ID of the machine identity to authenticate with.

### LDAP Auth

```java
public void LdapAuthLogin(
  LdapAuthLoginInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = LdapAuthLoginInput
  .builder()
  .identityId("<machine-identity-id>")
  .username("<ldap-username>")
  .password("<ldap-password>")
  .build();

sdk.Auth().LdapAuthLogin(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (LdapAuthLoginInput): The input for authenticating with LDAP.
  - `identityId` (String): The ID of the machine identity to authenticate with.
  - `username` (String): The LDAP username.
  - `password` (String): The LDAP password.

### Access Token Auth

#### Authenticating

```java
public void SetAccessToken(
  String accessToken
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
sdk.Auth().SetAccessToken("ACCESS_TOKEN");
```

**Parameters:**
- `accessToken` (string): The access token you want to use for authentication.

### `Secrets`

This sub-class handles operations related to secrets:

#### List Secrets

```java
public List<Secret> ListSecrets(
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    Boolean expandSecretReferences,
    Boolean recursive,
    Boolean includeImports,
    Boolean setSecretsOnSystemProperties
)

throws InfisicalException
```

```java
List<Secret> secrets = sdk.Secrets().ListSecrets(
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  false, // Should expand secret references
  false, // Should get secrets recursively from sub folders
  false, // Should include imports
  false // Should set the fetched secrets as key/value pairs on the system properties. Makes the secrets accessible as System.getProperty("<secret-key>")
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to list secrets (e.g., "dev").
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secrets.
- `expandSecretReferences` (boolean): Whether to expand secret references.
- `recursive` (boolean): Whether to list secrets recursively.
- `includeImports` (boolean): Whether to include imported secrets.
- `setSecretsOnSystemProperties` (boolean): Set the retrieved secrets as key/value pairs on the system properties, making them accessible through `System.getProperty("<secret-key>")`

**Returns:**
- `List<Secret>`: The response containing the list of secrets.

#### Create Secret


```java
public Secret CreateSecret(
    String secretName,
    String secretValue,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret newSecret = sdk.Secrets().CreateSecret(
  "NEW_SECRET_NAME",
  "secret-value",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to create
- `secretValue` (string): The value of the secret.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to create the secret.
- `secretPath` (string, optional): The path to the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The created secret.

#### Update Secret

```java
public Secret UpdateSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    String newSecretValue,
    String newSecretName
  )
    
throws InfisicalException
```


```java
Secret updatedSecret = sdk.Secrets().UpdateSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  "NEW_SECRET_VALUE", // nullable
  "NEW_SECRET_NAME" // nullable
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to update.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to update the secret.
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secret.
- `newSecretValue` (string, nullable): The new value of the secret.
- `newSecretName` (string, nullable): A new name for the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The updated secret.

#### Get Secret by Name

```java
public Secret GetSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath,
    Boolean expandSecretReferences,
    Boolean includeImports,
    String secretType
  )
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret secret = sdk.Secrets().GetSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME",
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
  false, // Should expand secret references
  false, // Should get secrets recursively from sub folders
  false, // Should include imports
  "shared" // Optional Secret Type (defaults to "shared")
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to get`
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to retrieve the secret.
- `secretPath` (string): The path to the secret.
- `expandSecretReferences` (boolean, optional): Whether to expand secret references.
- `includeImports` (boolean, optional): Whether to include imported secrets.
- `secretType` (personal | shared, optional): The type of secret to fetch.


**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The fetched secret.

#### Delete Secret by Name

```java
public Secret DeleteSecret(
    String secretName,
    String projectId,
    String environmentSlug,
    String secretPath
  )
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Secret deletedSecret = sdk.Secrets().DeleteSecret(
  "SECRET_NAME", 
  "<project-id>",
  "<env-slug>", // dev, prod, staging, etc.
  "/secret/path", // `/` is the root folder
);
```

**Parameters:**
- `secretName` (string): The name of the secret to delete.
- `projectId` (string): The ID of your project.
- `environmentSlug` (string): The environment in which to delete the secret.
- `secretPath` (string, optional): The path to the secret.

**Returns:**
- `Secret`: The deleted secret.


### `Folders`

#### Get Folder By Name 

```java
public Folder Get(
  String folderId
);
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
Folder folder = sdk.Folders().Get("<folder-id>");
```

**Parameters:**
- `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to retrieve.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The retrieved folder.

#### List Folders

```java
public List<Folder> List(
  ListFoldersInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
ListFoldersInput input = ListFoldersInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .recursive(false)
  .build();

List<Folder> folders = sdk.Folders().List(input);
```


**Parameters:**
- `input` (ListFoldersInput): The input for listing folders.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project to list folders from.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment to list folders from.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path to list folders from. Defaults to `/`.
  - `recursive` (Boolean): Whether or not to list sub-folders recursively from the specified folder path and downwards. Defaults to `false`.

**Returns:**
- `List<Folder>`: The retrieved folders.

#### Create Folder

```java
public Folder Create(
  CreateFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = CreateFolderInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderName("<folder-name>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .description("Optional folder description")
  .build();

Folder createdFolder = sdk.Folders().Create(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (CreateFolderInput): The input for creating a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project to create the folder in.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment to create the folder in.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path to create the folder in. Defaults to `/`.
  - `folderName` (String): The name of the folder to create.
  - `description` (String): The description of the folder to create. This is optional.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The created folder.

#### Update Folder

```java
public Folder Update(
  UpdateFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = UpdateFolderInput
  .builder()
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .folderId("<id-of-folder-to-update>")
  .newFolderName("<the-new-folder-name>")
  .folderPath("/")
  .build();

Folder updatedFolder = sdk.Folders().Update(input);
```

**Parameters:**
- `input` (UpdateFolderInput): The input for updating a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project where the folder exists.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment where the folder exists.
  - `folderPath` (String): The path of the folder to update.
  - `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to update.
  - `newFolderName` (String): The new folder name.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The updated folder.

#### Delete Folder

```java
public Folder Delete(
  DeleteFolderInput input
)
throws InfisicalException
```

```java
var input = DeleteFolderInput
  .builder()
  .folderId("<the-folder-id>")
  .environmentSlug("<env-slug>")
  .projectId("<your-project-id>")
  .build();

Folder deletedFolder = sdk.Folders().Delete(input);
```


**Parameters:**
- `input` (DeleteFolderInput): The input for deleting a folder.
  - `projectId` (String): The ID of the project where the folder exists.
  - `environmentSlug` (String): The slug of the environment where the folder exists.
  - `folderId` (String): The ID of the folder to delete.

**Returns:**
- `Folder`: The deleted folder.
