docs/internals/permissions/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "Infisical's permissions system provides granular access control."
---

## Overview

The Infisical permissions system is based on a role-based access control (RBAC) model. The system allows you to define roles and assign them to users and machines. Each role has a set of permissions that define what actions a user can perform.

Permissions are built on a subject-action-object model. The subject is the resource the permission is being applied to, the action is what the permission allows.
An example of a subject/action combination would be `secrets/read`. This permission allows the subject to read secrets.

## Permission Scope Levels

Infisical's permission system operates at two distinct levels, providing comprehensive and flexible access control across your entire security infrastructure:

### Project Permissions

Project permissions control access to resources within a specific project, including secrets management, PKI, KMS, and SSH certificate functionality.

For a comprehensive list of all project-level subjects, actions, and detailed descriptions, please refer to the [Project Permissions](/internals/permissions/project-permissions) documentation.

### Organization Permissions

Organization permissions control access to organization-wide resources and settings such as workspaces, billing, identity providers, and more.

For a comprehensive list of all organization-level subjects, actions, and detailed descriptions, please refer to the [Organization Permissions](/internals/permissions/organization-permissions) documentation.

## Inversion

Permission inversion allows you to explicitly deny actions instead of allowing them. This is supported for the following subjects:

- secrets
- secret-folders
- secret-imports
- dynamic-secrets

When a permission is inverted, it changes from an "allow" rule to a "deny" rule. For example:

```typescript
// Regular permission - allows reading secrets
{
  subject: "secrets",
  action: ["read"]
}

// Inverted permission - denies reading secrets
{
  subject: "secrets",
  action: ["read"],
  inverted: true
}
```

**Important:** The order of permissions matters when using inversion. For inverted (deny) permissions to be effective, there
typically needs to be a corresponding allow permission somewhere in the chain. Permissions are evaluated in sequence,
so the relative positioning of allow and deny rules determines the final access outcome.

## Conditions

Conditions allow you to create more granular permissions by specifying criteria that must be met for the permission to apply. This is supported for the following subjects:

- secrets
- secret-folders
- secret-imports
- dynamic-secrets

### Properties

Conditions can be applied to the following properties:

- `environment`: Control access based on environment slugs
- `secretPath`: Control access based on secret paths
- `secretName`: Control access based on secret names
- `secretTags`: Control access based on tags (only supports $in operator)

### Operators

The following operators are available for conditions:

| Operator | Description                        | Example                                               |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `$eq`    | Equal                              | `{ environment: { $eq: "production" } }`              |
| `$ne`    | Not equal                          | `{ environment: { $ne: "development" } }`             |
| `$in`    | Matches any value in array         | `{ environment: { $in: ["staging", "production"] } }` |
| `$glob`  | Pattern matching using glob syntax | `{ secretPath: { $glob: "/app/\*" } }`                |

These details are especially useful if you're using the API to [create new project roles](/api-reference/endpoints/project-roles/create).
The rules outlined on this page, also apply when using our Terraform Provider to manage your Infisical project roles, or any other of our clients that manage project roles.

Commit message:

Document RBAC conditions for MCP endpoints, including name-based filtering and supported operators.

docs/internals/permissions/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "Infisical's permissions system provides granular access control."
---

## Overview

The Infisical permissions system is based on a role-based access control (RBAC) model. The system allows you to define roles and assign them to users and machines. Each role has a set of permissions that define what actions a user can perform.

Permissions are built on a subject-action-object model. The subject is the resource the permission is being applied to, the action is what the permission allows.
An example of a subject/action combination would be `secrets/read`. This permission allows the subject to read secrets.

## Permission Scope Levels

Infisical's permission system operates at two distinct levels, providing comprehensive and flexible access control across your entire security infrastructure:

### Project Permissions

Project permissions control access to resources within a specific project, including secrets management, PKI, KMS, and SSH certificate functionality.

For a comprehensive list of all project-level subjects, actions, and detailed descriptions, please refer to the [Project Permissions](/internals/permissions/project-permissions) documentation.

### Organization Permissions

Organization permissions control access to organization-wide resources and settings such as workspaces, billing, identity providers, and more.

For a comprehensive list of all organization-level subjects, actions, and detailed descriptions, please refer to the [Organization Permissions](/internals/permissions/organization-permissions) documentation.

## Inversion

Permission inversion allows you to explicitly deny actions instead of allowing them. This is supported for the following subjects:

- secrets
- secret-folders
- secret-imports
- dynamic-secrets
- mcp-endpoints

When a permission is inverted, it changes from an "allow" rule to a "deny" rule. For example:

```typescript
// Regular permission - allows reading secrets
{
  subject: "secrets",
  action: ["read"]
}

// Inverted permission - denies reading secrets
{
  subject: "secrets",
  action: ["read"],
  inverted: true
}
```

**Important:** The order of permissions matters when using inversion. For inverted (deny) permissions to be effective, there
typically needs to be a corresponding allow permission somewhere in the chain. Permissions are evaluated in sequence,
so the relative positioning of allow and deny rules determines the final access outcome.

## Conditions

Conditions allow you to create more granular permissions by specifying criteria that must be met for the permission to apply. This is supported for the following subjects:

- secrets
- secret-folders
- secret-imports
- dynamic-secrets
- mcp-endpoints

### Properties

Conditions can be applied to the following properties:

- `environment`: Control access based on environment slugs
- `secretPath`: Control access based on secret paths
- `secretName`: Control access based on secret names
- `secretTags`: Control access based on tags (only supports $in operator)

### MCP Endpoint Properties

For `mcp-endpoints`, conditions can be applied to:

- `name`: Control access based on endpoint name (supports `$eq`, `$ne`, `$glob`, `$in`)

### Operators

The following operators are available for conditions:

| Operator | Description                        | Example                                               |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `$eq`    | Equal                              | `{ environment: { $eq: "production" } }`              |
| `$ne`    | Not equal                          | `{ environment: { $ne: "development" } }`             |
| `$in`    | Matches any value in array         | `{ environment: { $in: ["staging", "production"] } }` |
| `$glob`  | Pattern matching using glob syntax | `{ secretPath: { $glob: "/app/\*" } }`                |

These details are especially useful if you're using the API to [create new project roles](/api-reference/endpoints/project-roles/create).
The rules outlined on this page, also apply when using our Terraform Provider to manage your Infisical project roles, or any other of our clients that manage project roles.
