docs/internals/permissions/project-permissions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Project Permissions"
description: "Comprehensive guide to Infisical's project-level permissions"
---

## Overview

Infisical's project permissions system follows a role-based access control (RBAC) model built on a subject-action-object framework. At the project level, these permissions determine what actions users/machines can perform on various resources within a specific project.

Each permission consists of:

- **Subject**: The resource the permission applies to (e.g., secrets, members, settings)
- **Action**: The operation that can be performed (e.g., read, create, edit, delete)

Some project-level resources—specifically `secrets`, `secret-folders`, `secret-imports`, `dynamic-secrets`, `secret-syncs`, and `secret-rotation`, support conditional permissions and permission inversion for more granular access control. Conditions allow you to specify criteria (like environment, secret path, tags, or app connection ID) that must be met for the permission to apply.

## Available Project Permissions

Below is a comprehensive list of all available project-level subjects and their supported actions.

### Core Platform & Access Control

#### Subject: `role`

| Action   | Description                                       |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project roles and their assigned permissions |
| `create` | Create new project roles                          |
| `edit`   | Modify existing project roles                     |
| `delete` | Remove project roles                              |

#### Subject: `member`

| Action             | Description                                 |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View project members                        |
| `create`           | Add new members to the project              |
| `edit`             | Modify member details                       |
| `delete`           | Remove members from the project             |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project members |

#### Subject: `groups`

| Action             | Description                                |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| `read`             | View project groups                        |
| `create`           | Create new groups within the project       |
| `edit`             | Modify existing groups                     |
| `delete`           | Remove groups from the project             |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project groups |

#### Subject: `identity`

| Action             | Description                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View project identities                        |
| `create`           | Add new identities to project                  |
| `edit`             | Modify project identities                      |
| `delete`           | Remove identities from project                 |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project identities |

#### Subject: `settings`

| Action   | Description                            |
| -------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project settings                  |
| `create` | Add new project configuration settings |
| `edit`   | Modify project settings                |
| `delete` | Remove project settings                |

#### Subject: `environments`

| Action   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View project environments            |
| `create` | Add new environments to the project  |
| `edit`   | Modify existing environments         |
| `delete` | Remove environments from the project |

#### Subject: `tags`

| Action   | Description                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project tags                        |
| `create` | Create new tags for organizing resources |
| `edit`   | Modify existing tags                     |
| `delete` | Remove tags from the project             |

#### Subject: `project`

| Action   | Description               |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| `edit`   | Modify workspace settings |
| `delete` | Delete the workspace      |

#### Subject: `ip-allowlist`

| Action   | Description                                  |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View IP allowlists                           |
| `create` | Add new IP addresses or ranges to allowlists |
| `edit`   | Modify existing IP allowlist entries         |
| `delete` | Remove IP addresses from allowlists          |

#### Subject: `audit-logs`

| Action | Description                                             |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read` | View audit logs of actions performed within the project |

#### Subject: `integrations`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View configured integrations     |
| `create` | Add new third-party integrations |
| `edit`   | Modify integration settings      |
| `delete` | Remove integrations              |

#### Subject: `webhooks`

| Action   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View webhook configurations          |
| `create` | Add new webhooks                     |
| `edit`   | Modify webhook endpoints or triggers |
| `delete` | Remove webhooks                      |

#### Subject: `service-tokens`

| Action   | Description                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View service tokens                      |
| `create` | Create new service tokens for API access |
| `edit`   | Modify token properties                  |
| `delete` | Revoke or remove service tokens          |

#### Subject: `app-connections`

Supports conditions and permission inversion

| Action                    | Description                        |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read-app-connections`    | View app connection configurations |
| `create-app-connections`  | Create new app connections         |
| `edit-app-connections`    | Modify existing app connections    |
| `delete-app-connections`  | Remove app connections             |
| `connect-app-connections` | Use app connections                |

### Secrets Management

#### Subject: `secrets`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description | Notes |
| -------- | ------------------------------- | ----- |
| `read` | View secrets and their values | This action is the equivalent of granting both `describeSecret` and `readValue`. The `read` action is considered **legacy**. You should use the `describeSecret` and/or `readValue` actions instead. |
| `describeSecret` | View secret details such as key, path, metadata, tags, and more | If you are using the API, you can pass `viewSecretValue: false` to the API call to retrieve secrets without their values. |
| `readValue` | View the value of a secret.| In order to read secret values, the `describeSecret` action must also be granted. |
| `create` | Add new secrets to the project | |
| `edit` | Modify existing secret values | |
| `delete` | Remove secrets from the project | |

#### Subject: `secret-folders`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| -------- | ------------------------ |
| `read` | View secret folders |
| `create` | Create new folders |
| `edit` | Modify folder properties |
| `delete` | Remove secret folders |

#### Subject: `secret-imports`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| -------- | --------------------- |
| `read` | View secret imports |
| `create` | Create secret imports |
| `edit` | Modify secret imports |
| `delete` | Remove secret imports |

#### Subject: `secret-event-subscriptions`

| Action                          | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `subscribe-to-creation-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are created                  |
| `subscribe-to-update-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are updated                  |
| `subscribe-to-deletion-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are deleted                  |
| `subscribe-to-import-mutation-events` | Subscribe to events when secrets are modified through imports |

#### Subject: `secret-rollback`

| Action   | Description                        |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View secret versions and snapshots |
| `create` | Roll back secrets to snapshots     |

#### Subject: `commits`

| Action             | Description                                                     |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View commits and changes across folders                         |
| `perform-rollback` | Roll back commits changes and restore folders to previous state |

#### Subject: `secret-approval`

| Action                | Description                                                                         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`                | View approval policies and requests                                                 |
| `create`              | Create new approval policies                                                        |
| `edit`                | Modify approval policies                                                            |
| `delete`              | Remove approval policies                                                            |
| `allow-change-bypass` | Allow request creators to merge changes without approval in break-glass situations  |
| `allow-access-bypass` | Allow request creators to access secrets without approval in break-glass situations |

#### Subject: `secret-rotation`

Supports conditions and permission inversion

| Action | Description |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `read` | View secret rotation configurations |
| `read-generated-credentials` | View the generated credentials of a rotation |
| `create` | Set up secret rotation configurations |
| `edit` | Modify secret rotation configurations |
| `rotate-secrets` | Rotate the generated credentials of a rotation |
| `delete` | Remove secret rotation configurations |

**Condition Properties:**
- `environment` – Restrict by environment slug
- `secretPath` – Restrict by secret path
- `connectionId` – Restrict by app connection ID (e.g. to allow or deny access to rotations tied to a specific org-level app connection)

#### Subject: `secret-syncs`

Supports conditions and permission inversion.

| Action           | Description                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`           | View secret synchronization configurations         |
| `create`         | Create new sync configurations                     |
| `edit`           | Modify existing sync settings                      |
| `delete`         | Remove sync configurations                         |
| `sync-secrets`   | Execute synchronization of secrets between systems |
| `import-secrets` | Import secrets from sync sources                   |
| `remove-secrets` | Remove secrets from sync destinations              |

**Condition Properties:**
- `environment` – Restrict by environment slug
- `secretPath` – Restrict by secret path
- `connectionId` – Restrict by app connection ID (e.g. to allow or deny access to syncs tied to a specific org-level app connection)

#### Subject: `dynamic-secrets`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| `read-root-credential` | View dynamic secret configurations |
| `create-root-credential` | Create dynamic secrets |
| `edit-root-credential` | Edit dynamic secrets |
| `delete-root-credential` | Remove dynamic secrets |
| `lease` | Create dynamic secret leases |

### Key Management Service (KMS)

#### Subject: `kms`

| Action | Description                 |
| ------ | --------------------------- |
| `edit` | Modify project KMS settings |

#### Subject: `cmek`

| Action               | Description                                                                 |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`               | View Customer-Managed Encryption Keys                                       |
| `create`             | Add new encryption keys                                                     |
| `edit`               | Modify key properties                                                       |
| `delete`             | Remove encryption keys                                                      |
| `encrypt`            | Use keys for encryption operations                                          |
| `decrypt`            | Use keys for decryption operations                                          |
| `sign`               | Use keys for signing operations                                             |
| `verify`             | Use keys for signature verification operations                              |
| `export-private-key` | Export key material (private key for asymmetric, secret key for symmetric)  |

### Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

#### Subject: `certificate-authorities`

| Action   | Description                        |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate authorities       |
| `create` | Create new certificate authorities |
| `edit`   | Modify CA configurations           |
| `delete` | Remove certificate authorities     |

#### Subject: `certificates`

| Action             | Description                   |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| `read`             | View certificates             |
| `read-private-key` | Read certificate private key  |
| `create`           | Issue new certificates        |
| `delete`           | Revoke or remove certificates |

#### Subject: `certificate-profiles`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate profiles       |
| `create` | Create new certificate profiles |
| `edit`   | Modify profile configurations   |
| `delete` | Remove certificate profiles     |
| `issue-cert` | Issue new certificates |

#### Subject: `certificate-policies`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate policies         |
| `create` | Create new certificate policies  |
| `edit`   | Modify policy configurations     |
| `delete` | Remove certificate policies      |

#### Subject: `pki-alerts`

| Action   | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View PKI alert configurations                                |
| `create` | Create new alerts for certificate expiry or other PKI events |
| `edit`   | Modify alert settings                                        |
| `delete` | Remove PKI alerts                                            |

#### Subject: `pki-collections`

| Action   | Description                                         |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View PKI resource collections                       |
| `create` | Create new collections for organizing PKI resources |
| `edit`   | Modify collection properties                        |
| `delete` | Remove PKI collections                              |

### Secret Scanning

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-data-sources`

| Action                       | Description                      |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read-data-sources`          | View Data Sources                |
| `create-data-sources`        | Create new Data Sources          |
| `edit-data-sources`          | Modify Data Sources              |
| `delete-data-sources`        | Remove Data Sources              |
| `read-data-source-resources` | View Data Source Resources       |
| `read-data-source-scans`     | View Data Source Scans           |
| `trigger-data-source-scans`  | Trigger Data Source Secret Scans |

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-findings`

| Action            | Description                     |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `read-findings`   | View Secret Scanning Findings   |
| `update-findings` | Update Secret Scanning Findings |

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-configs`

| Action           | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `read-configs`   | View Secret Scanning Project Configuration   |
| `update-configs` | Update Secret Scanning Project Configuration |

### Agent Sentinel

#### Subject: `mcp-endpoints`

Supports conditions and permission inversion.

| Action    | Description                         |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `read`    | View MCP endpoints                  |
| `create`  | Create new MCP endpoints            |
| `edit`    | Modify MCP endpoint configurations  |
| `delete`  | Remove MCP endpoints                |
| `connect` | Connect AI clients to MCP endpoints |

**Condition Properties:**
- `name`: Control access based on endpoint name

Commit message:

fix: removing describe since it would be the same as read

docs/internals/permissions/project-permissions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Project Permissions"
description: "Comprehensive guide to Infisical's project-level permissions"
---

## Overview

Infisical's project permissions system follows a role-based access control (RBAC) model built on a subject-action-object framework. At the project level, these permissions determine what actions users/machines can perform on various resources within a specific project.

Each permission consists of:

- **Subject**: The resource the permission applies to (e.g., secrets, members, settings)
- **Action**: The operation that can be performed (e.g., read, create, edit, delete)

Some project-level resources—specifically `secrets`, `secret-folders`, `secret-imports`, `dynamic-secrets`, `secret-syncs`, and `secret-rotation`, support conditional permissions and permission inversion for more granular access control. Conditions allow you to specify criteria (like environment, secret path, tags, or app connection ID) that must be met for the permission to apply.

## Available Project Permissions

Below is a comprehensive list of all available project-level subjects and their supported actions.

### Core Platform & Access Control

#### Subject: `role`

| Action   | Description                                       |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project roles and their assigned permissions |
| `create` | Create new project roles                          |
| `edit`   | Modify existing project roles                     |
| `delete` | Remove project roles                              |

#### Subject: `member`

| Action             | Description                                 |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View project members                        |
| `create`           | Add new members to the project              |
| `edit`             | Modify member details                       |
| `delete`           | Remove members from the project             |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project members |

#### Subject: `groups`

| Action             | Description                                |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| `read`             | View project groups                        |
| `create`           | Create new groups within the project       |
| `edit`             | Modify existing groups                     |
| `delete`           | Remove groups from the project             |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project groups |

#### Subject: `identity`

| Action             | Description                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View project identities                        |
| `create`           | Add new identities to project                  |
| `edit`             | Modify project identities                      |
| `delete`           | Remove identities from project                 |
| `grant-privileges` | Change permission levels of project identities |

#### Subject: `settings`

| Action   | Description                            |
| -------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project settings                  |
| `create` | Add new project configuration settings |
| `edit`   | Modify project settings                |
| `delete` | Remove project settings                |

#### Subject: `environments`

| Action   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View project environments            |
| `create` | Add new environments to the project  |
| `edit`   | Modify existing environments         |
| `delete` | Remove environments from the project |

#### Subject: `tags`

| Action   | Description                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View project tags                        |
| `create` | Create new tags for organizing resources |
| `edit`   | Modify existing tags                     |
| `delete` | Remove tags from the project             |

#### Subject: `project`

| Action   | Description               |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| `edit`   | Modify workspace settings |
| `delete` | Delete the workspace      |

#### Subject: `ip-allowlist`

| Action   | Description                                  |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View IP allowlists                           |
| `create` | Add new IP addresses or ranges to allowlists |
| `edit`   | Modify existing IP allowlist entries         |
| `delete` | Remove IP addresses from allowlists          |

#### Subject: `audit-logs`

| Action | Description                                             |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read` | View audit logs of actions performed within the project |

#### Subject: `integrations`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View configured integrations     |
| `create` | Add new third-party integrations |
| `edit`   | Modify integration settings      |
| `delete` | Remove integrations              |

#### Subject: `webhooks`

| Action   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View webhook configurations          |
| `create` | Add new webhooks                     |
| `edit`   | Modify webhook endpoints or triggers |
| `delete` | Remove webhooks                      |

#### Subject: `service-tokens`

| Action   | Description                              |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View service tokens                      |
| `create` | Create new service tokens for API access |
| `edit`   | Modify token properties                  |
| `delete` | Revoke or remove service tokens          |

#### Subject: `app-connections`

Supports conditions and permission inversion

| Action                    | Description                        |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read-app-connections`    | View app connection configurations |
| `create-app-connections`  | Create new app connections         |
| `edit-app-connections`    | Modify existing app connections    |
| `delete-app-connections`  | Remove app connections             |
| `connect-app-connections` | Use app connections                |

### Secrets Management

#### Subject: `secrets`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description | Notes |
| -------- | ------------------------------- | ----- |
| `read` | View secrets and their values | This action is the equivalent of granting both `describeSecret` and `readValue`. The `read` action is considered **legacy**. You should use the `describeSecret` and/or `readValue` actions instead. |
| `describeSecret` | View secret details such as key, path, metadata, tags, and more | If you are using the API, you can pass `viewSecretValue: false` to the API call to retrieve secrets without their values. |
| `readValue` | View the value of a secret.| In order to read secret values, the `describeSecret` action must also be granted. |
| `create` | Add new secrets to the project | |
| `edit` | Modify existing secret values | |
| `delete` | Remove secrets from the project | |

#### Subject: `secret-folders`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| -------- | ------------------------ |
| `read` | View secret folders |
| `create` | Create new folders |
| `edit` | Modify folder properties |
| `delete` | Remove secret folders |

#### Subject: `secret-imports`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| -------- | --------------------- |
| `read` | View secret imports |
| `create` | Create secret imports |
| `edit` | Modify secret imports |
| `delete` | Remove secret imports |

#### Subject: `secret-event-subscriptions`

| Action                          | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `subscribe-to-creation-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are created                  |
| `subscribe-to-update-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are updated                  |
| `subscribe-to-deletion-events`          | Subscribe to events when secrets are deleted                  |
| `subscribe-to-import-mutation-events` | Subscribe to events when secrets are modified through imports |

#### Subject: `secret-rollback`

| Action   | Description                        |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View secret versions and snapshots |
| `create` | Roll back secrets to snapshots     |

#### Subject: `commits`

| Action             | Description                                                     |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`             | View commits and changes across folders                         |
| `perform-rollback` | Roll back commits changes and restore folders to previous state |

#### Subject: `secret-approval`

| Action                | Description                                                                         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`                | View approval policies and requests                                                 |
| `create`              | Create new approval policies                                                        |
| `edit`                | Modify approval policies                                                            |
| `delete`              | Remove approval policies                                                            |
| `allow-change-bypass` | Allow request creators to merge changes without approval in break-glass situations  |
| `allow-access-bypass` | Allow request creators to access secrets without approval in break-glass situations |

#### Subject: `secret-approval-request`

| Action | Description                                              |
| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read` | List and view all secret approval requests in the project |

<Note>
  Secret values within approval requests are controlled by the user's `secrets.readValue` permission for each secret's environment/path, unless the user is a designated reviewer for the request. The `read` permission does not override this behavior.
</Note>

#### Subject: `secret-rotation`

Supports conditions and permission inversion

| Action | Description |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `read` | View secret rotation configurations |
| `read-generated-credentials` | View the generated credentials of a rotation |
| `create` | Set up secret rotation configurations |
| `edit` | Modify secret rotation configurations |
| `rotate-secrets` | Rotate the generated credentials of a rotation |
| `delete` | Remove secret rotation configurations |

**Condition Properties:**
- `environment` – Restrict by environment slug
- `secretPath` – Restrict by secret path
- `connectionId` – Restrict by app connection ID (e.g. to allow or deny access to rotations tied to a specific org-level app connection)

#### Subject: `secret-syncs`

Supports conditions and permission inversion.

| Action           | Description                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`           | View secret synchronization configurations         |
| `create`         | Create new sync configurations                     |
| `edit`           | Modify existing sync settings                      |
| `delete`         | Remove sync configurations                         |
| `sync-secrets`   | Execute synchronization of secrets between systems |
| `import-secrets` | Import secrets from sync sources                   |
| `remove-secrets` | Remove secrets from sync destinations              |

**Condition Properties:**
- `environment` – Restrict by environment slug
- `secretPath` – Restrict by secret path
- `connectionId` – Restrict by app connection ID (e.g. to allow or deny access to syncs tied to a specific org-level app connection)

#### Subject: `dynamic-secrets`

Supports conditions and permission inversion
| Action | Description |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| `read-root-credential` | View dynamic secret configurations |
| `create-root-credential` | Create dynamic secrets |
| `edit-root-credential` | Edit dynamic secrets |
| `delete-root-credential` | Remove dynamic secrets |
| `lease` | Create dynamic secret leases |

### Key Management Service (KMS)

#### Subject: `kms`

| Action | Description                 |
| ------ | --------------------------- |
| `edit` | Modify project KMS settings |

#### Subject: `cmek`

| Action               | Description                                                                 |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`               | View Customer-Managed Encryption Keys                                       |
| `create`             | Add new encryption keys                                                     |
| `edit`               | Modify key properties                                                       |
| `delete`             | Remove encryption keys                                                      |
| `encrypt`            | Use keys for encryption operations                                          |
| `decrypt`            | Use keys for decryption operations                                          |
| `sign`               | Use keys for signing operations                                             |
| `verify`             | Use keys for signature verification operations                              |
| `export-private-key` | Export key material (private key for asymmetric, secret key for symmetric)  |

### Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)

#### Subject: `certificate-authorities`

| Action   | Description                        |
| -------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate authorities       |
| `create` | Create new certificate authorities |
| `edit`   | Modify CA configurations           |
| `delete` | Remove certificate authorities     |

#### Subject: `certificates`

| Action             | Description                   |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| `read`             | View certificates             |
| `read-private-key` | Read certificate private key  |
| `create`           | Issue new certificates        |
| `delete`           | Revoke or remove certificates |

#### Subject: `certificate-profiles`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate profiles       |
| `create` | Create new certificate profiles |
| `edit`   | Modify profile configurations   |
| `delete` | Remove certificate profiles     |
| `issue-cert` | Issue new certificates |

#### Subject: `certificate-policies`

| Action   | Description                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View certificate policies         |
| `create` | Create new certificate policies  |
| `edit`   | Modify policy configurations     |
| `delete` | Remove certificate policies      |

#### Subject: `pki-alerts`

| Action   | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `read`   | View PKI alert configurations                                |
| `create` | Create new alerts for certificate expiry or other PKI events |
| `edit`   | Modify alert settings                                        |
| `delete` | Remove PKI alerts                                            |

#### Subject: `pki-collections`

| Action   | Description                                         |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `read`   | View PKI resource collections                       |
| `create` | Create new collections for organizing PKI resources |
| `edit`   | Modify collection properties                        |
| `delete` | Remove PKI collections                              |

### Secret Scanning

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-data-sources`

| Action                       | Description                      |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `read-data-sources`          | View Data Sources                |
| `create-data-sources`        | Create new Data Sources          |
| `edit-data-sources`          | Modify Data Sources              |
| `delete-data-sources`        | Remove Data Sources              |
| `read-data-source-resources` | View Data Source Resources       |
| `read-data-source-scans`     | View Data Source Scans           |
| `trigger-data-source-scans`  | Trigger Data Source Secret Scans |

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-findings`

| Action            | Description                     |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `read-findings`   | View Secret Scanning Findings   |
| `update-findings` | Update Secret Scanning Findings |

#### Subject: `secret-scanning-configs`

| Action           | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `read-configs`   | View Secret Scanning Project Configuration   |
| `update-configs` | Update Secret Scanning Project Configuration |

### Agent Sentinel

#### Subject: `mcp-endpoints`

Supports conditions and permission inversion.

| Action    | Description                         |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `read`    | View MCP endpoints                  |
| `create`  | Create new MCP endpoints            |
| `edit`    | Modify MCP endpoint configurations  |
| `delete`  | Remove MCP endpoints                |
| `connect` | Connect AI clients to MCP endpoints |

**Condition Properties:**
- `name`: Control access based on endpoint name
