docs/integrations/cicd/octopus-deploy.mdx, before:

---
title: "Octopus Deploy"
description: "Learn how to sync secrets from Infisical to Octopus Deploy"
---

Prerequisites:

- Set up and add secrets to [Infisical Cloud](https://app.infisical.com)

<Steps>
    <Step title="Create a Service Account for Infisical in Octopus Deploy">
        Navigate to **Configuration** > **Users** and click on the **Create Service Account** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        users](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-user-settings.png)

        Fill out the required fields and click on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy service
        account](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-service-account.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Generate an API Key for your Service Account">
        On the **Service Account** user page, expand the **API Keys** section and click on the **New API Key** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        new api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-api-key.png)

        Fill out the required fields and click on the **Generate New** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        generate api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-generate-api-key.png)

        <Note>If you configure your access token to expire,
            you will need to generate a new API key for Infisical prior to this date to keep your integration running.</Note>

        Copy the generated **API Key** and click on the **Close** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        copy api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-copy-api-key.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Create a Service Accounts Team and assign your Service Account">
        <Note>You can skip creating a new team if you already have an Octopus Deploy team configured with
            the **Project Contributor** role to assign your Service Account to.</Note>

        Navigate to **Configuration** > **Teams** and click on the **Add Team** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        teams](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-team-settings.png)

        Create a new team for **Service Accounts** and click on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add
        team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-team.png)

        On the **Members** tab, click on the **Add Member** button, add your **Infisical Service Account** and click on the **Add** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add service account to team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-add-to-team.png)

        On the **User Roles** tab, click on the **Include User Role** button, and add the **Project Contributor** role. Optionally,
        click on the **Define Scope** button to further refine what projects your Service Account has access to. Click on the **Apply** button once complete.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add user roles to team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-add-role.png)

        Save your team changes by clicking on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy save team changes](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-save-team.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Setup Integration">
        In Infisical, navigate to your **Project** > **Integrations** page and select the **Octopus Deploy** integration.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-integrations.png)

        Enter your **Instance URL** and **API Key** from **Octopus Deploy** to authorize Infisical.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-authorize.png)

        Select a **Space** and **Project** from **Octopus Deploy** to sync secrets to; configuring additional **Scope Values** as needed. Click on the **Create Integration** button once configured.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create.png)

        Your Infisical secrets will begin to sync to **Octopus Deploy**.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-sync.png)
    </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

Improve Octopus docs to better highlight spaces managment and permissions

docs/integrations/cicd/octopus-deploy.mdx, after:

---
title: "Octopus Deploy"
description: "Learn how to sync secrets from Infisical to Octopus Deploy"
---

Prerequisites:

- Set up and add secrets to [Infisical Cloud](https://app.infisical.com)

<Steps>
    <Step title="Create a Service Account for Infisical in Octopus Deploy">
        Navigate to **Configuration** > **Users** and click on the **Create Service Account** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        users](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-user-settings.png)

        Fill out the required fields and click on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy service
        account](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-service-account.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Generate an API Key for your Service Account">
        On the **Service Account** user page, expand the **API Keys** section and click on the **New API Key** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        new api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-api-key.png)

        Fill out the required fields and click on the **Generate New** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        generate api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-generate-api-key.png)

        <Note>If you configure your access token to expire,
            you will need to generate a new API key for Infisical prior to this date to keep your integration running.</Note>

        Copy the generated **API Key** and click on the **Close** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        copy api key](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-copy-api-key.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Create a Service Accounts Team and assign your Service Account">
        <Note>You can skip creating a new team if you already have an Octopus Deploy team configured with
            the **Project Contributor** role to assign your Service Account to.</Note>

        Navigate to **Configuration** > **Teams** and click on the **Add Team** button.

        ![integrations octopus deploy
        teams](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-team-settings.png)

        Create a new team for **Service Accounts** and click on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add
        team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create-team.png)

        <Info>
            If you need to sync only one space, assign the service account to that space. Otherwise, allow access to all spaces for multi-space syncs.
        </Info>


        On the **Members** tab, click on the **Add Member** button, add your **Infisical Service Account** and click on the **Add** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add service account to team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-add-to-team.png)

        On the **User Roles** tab, click on the **Include User Role** button, and add the **Project Contributor** role. Optionally,
        click on the **Define Scope** button to further refine what projects your Service Account has access to. Click on the **Apply** button once complete.
        ![integrations octopus deploy add user roles to team](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-add-role.png)

        Save your team changes by clicking on the **Save** button.
        ![integrations octopus deploy save team changes](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-save-team.png)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Setup Integration">
        In Infisical, navigate to your **Project** > **Integrations** page and select the **Octopus Deploy** integration.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-integrations.png)

        Enter your **Instance URL** and **API Key** from **Octopus Deploy** to authorize Infisical.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-authorize.png)

        Select a **Space** and **Project** from **Octopus Deploy** to sync secrets to; configuring additional **Scope Values** as needed. Click on the **Create Integration** button once configured.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-create.png)

        Your Infisical secrets will begin to sync to **Octopus Deploy**.
        ![integration octopus deploy](/images/integrations/octopus-deploy/integrations-octopus-deploy-sync.png)
    </Step>
</Steps>
