docs/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Learn how to sync certificates from Infisical PKI to third-party services."
---

Certificate Syncs enable you to push certificates from Infisical to third-party services using [App Connections](/integrations/app-connections/overview).

<Note>
  Certificate Syncs are designed to automatically deploy certificates issued by
  your Certificate Authority to external services, ensuring your certificates
  are always up-to-date across your infrastructure.
</Note>

## Concept

Certificate Syncs are a project-level resource used to push certificates, via an [App Connection](/integrations/app-connections/overview), from Infisical
to a third-party service (destination). When paired with [server-side auto-renewal](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#server-driven-certificate-renewal), renewed certificates are automatically synced to the destination,
ensuring your certificates stay current.

<br />

<div align="center">

    ```mermaid
    %%{init: {'flowchart': {'curve': 'linear'} } }%%
    graph LR
    A[App Connection]
    B[Certificate Sync]
    C[Certificate 1]
    D[Certificate 2]
    E[Certificate 3]
    F[Third-Party Service]
    G[Certificate 1]
    H[Certificate 2]
    I[Certificate 3]

    B --> A
    C --> B
    D --> B
    E --> B
    A --> F
    F --> G
    F --> H
    F --> I

    classDef default fill:#ffffff,stroke:#666,stroke-width:2px,rx:10px,color:black
    classDef connection fill:#FFF2B2,stroke:#E6C34A,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef certificate fill:#E6F4FF,stroke:#0096D6,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef sync fill:#F4FFE6,stroke:#96D600,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef service fill:#E6E6FF,stroke:#6B4E96,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef subscriber fill:#FFE6E6,stroke:#D63F3F,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px

    class A connection
    class B sync
    class C,D,E,G,H,I certificate
    class F service
    class J subscriber
    ```

</div>

## Workflow

Configuring a Certificate Sync requires three components: The certificates that you'd like to push,
a <strong>destination</strong> endpoint to deploy certificates to, and <strong>configuration options</strong> to determine how your certificates
should be synced. Follow these steps to start syncing:

<Note>
  For step-by-step guides on syncing to a particular third-party service, refer
  to the Certificate Syncs section in the Navigation Bar.
</Note>

1. <strong>Create App Connection:</strong> If you have not already done so, create
   an [App Connection](/integrations/app-connections/overview) via the UI or API
   for the third-party service you intend to sync certificates to.

2. <strong>Create Certificate Sync:</strong> Configure a Certificate Sync in the
   desired project by specifying the following parameters via the UI or API:

   - <strong>Destination:</strong> The App Connection to utilize and the destination
     endpoint to deploy certificates to such as [AWS Certificate Manager](/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/aws-certificate-manager)
     or [Azure Key Vault](/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/azure-key-vault).
   - <strong>Certificates:</strong> The certificates you wish to push to the destination.
   - <strong>Options:</strong> Customize how certificates should be synced, including:
     - Whether certificates should be removed from the destination when they expire.
     - Certificate naming schema to control how certificate names are generated in
     the destination.

<Note>
  Only certificates managed by Infisical will be affected during sync
  operations. Certificates not created or managed by Infisical will remain
  untouched, and changes made to Infisical-managed certificates directly in the
  destination service may be overwritten by future syncs.
</Note>

<Info>
  Some third-party services do not support removing expired certificates
  automatically.
</Info>

3. <strong>Utilize Sync:</strong> Selected certificates will now be pushed to the
   destination endpoint and automatically redeployed whenever they are renewed.

<Note>
  Infisical is continuously expanding its Certificate Sync third-party service
  support. If the service you need isn't available, contact us at
  team@infisical.com to make a request.
</Note>

## Certificate Naming

Certificate Syncs support flexible certificate naming through configurable naming schemas. This allows you to customize how certificate names appear in your destination services.

### Default Naming

By default, certificates are named using the pattern `Infisical-{certificateId}` where `{certificateId}` is the unique identifier of the certificate with hyphens removed for compatibility with services like Azure Key Vault.

### Custom Naming Schema

You can customize certificate naming by providing a **Certificate Name Schema** when creating or updating a Certificate Sync. The schema supports the following placeholders:

- `{{certificateId}}` - The unique certificate identifier (required)

**Examples:**

- `myapp-{{certificateId}}` → `myapp-abc123def456`
- `ssl/{{certificateId}}` → `ssl/abc123def456`

**Rules:**

- Must include exactly one `{{certificateId}}` placeholder
- Only alphanumeric characters, dashes (-), underscores (\_), and slashes (/) are allowed
- Certificate names matching your schema will be managed by Infisical during sync operations

Commit message:

Add include Root CA on PKI syncs docs

docs/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Learn how to sync certificates from Infisical PKI to third-party services."
---

Certificate Syncs enable you to push certificates from Infisical to third-party services using [App Connections](/integrations/app-connections/overview).

<Note>
  Certificate Syncs are designed to automatically deploy certificates issued by
  your Certificate Authority to external services, ensuring your certificates
  are always up-to-date across your infrastructure.
</Note>

## Concept

Certificate Syncs are a project-level resource used to push certificates, via an [App Connection](/integrations/app-connections/overview), from Infisical
to a third-party service (destination). When paired with [server-side auto-renewal](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#server-driven-certificate-renewal), renewed certificates are automatically synced to the destination,
ensuring your certificates stay current.

<br />

<div align="center">

    ```mermaid
    %%{init: {'flowchart': {'curve': 'linear'} } }%%
    graph LR
    A[App Connection]
    B[Certificate Sync]
    C[Certificate 1]
    D[Certificate 2]
    E[Certificate 3]
    F[Third-Party Service]
    G[Certificate 1]
    H[Certificate 2]
    I[Certificate 3]

    B --> A
    C --> B
    D --> B
    E --> B
    A --> F
    F --> G
    F --> H
    F --> I

    classDef default fill:#ffffff,stroke:#666,stroke-width:2px,rx:10px,color:black
    classDef connection fill:#FFF2B2,stroke:#E6C34A,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef certificate fill:#E6F4FF,stroke:#0096D6,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef sync fill:#F4FFE6,stroke:#96D600,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef service fill:#E6E6FF,stroke:#6B4E96,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px
    classDef subscriber fill:#FFE6E6,stroke:#D63F3F,stroke-width:2px,color:black,rx:15px

    class A connection
    class B sync
    class C,D,E,G,H,I certificate
    class F service
    class J subscriber
    ```

</div>

## Workflow

Configuring a Certificate Sync requires three components: The certificates that you'd like to push,
a <strong>destination</strong> endpoint to deploy certificates to, and <strong>configuration options</strong> to determine how your certificates
should be synced. Follow these steps to start syncing:

<Note>
  For step-by-step guides on syncing to a particular third-party service, refer
  to the Certificate Syncs section in the Navigation Bar.
</Note>

1. <strong>Create App Connection:</strong> If you have not already done so, create
   an [App Connection](/integrations/app-connections/overview) via the UI or API
   for the third-party service you intend to sync certificates to.

2. <strong>Create Certificate Sync:</strong> Configure a Certificate Sync in the
   desired project by specifying the following parameters via the UI or API:

   - <strong>Destination:</strong> The App Connection to utilize and the destination
     endpoint to deploy certificates to such as [AWS Certificate Manager](/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/aws-certificate-manager)
     or [Azure Key Vault](/documentation/platform/pki/certificate-syncs/azure-key-vault).
   - <strong>Certificates:</strong> The certificates you wish to push to the destination.
   - <strong>Options:</strong> Customize how certificates should be synced, including:
     - Whether certificates should be removed from the destination when they expire.
     - Whether to include the Root CA certificate in the certificate chain.
     - Certificate naming schema to control how certificate names are generated in
     the destination.

<Note>
  Only certificates managed by Infisical will be affected during sync
  operations. Certificates not created or managed by Infisical will remain
  untouched, and changes made to Infisical-managed certificates directly in the
  destination service may be overwritten by future syncs.
</Note>

<Info>
  Some third-party services do not support removing expired certificates
  automatically.
</Info>

3. <strong>Utilize Sync:</strong> Selected certificates will now be pushed to the
   destination endpoint and automatically redeployed whenever they are renewed.

<Note>
  Infisical is continuously expanding its Certificate Sync third-party service
  support. If the service you need isn't available, contact us at
  team@infisical.com to make a request.
</Note>

## Certificate Naming

Certificate Syncs support flexible certificate naming through configurable naming schemas. This allows you to customize how certificate names appear in your destination services.

### Default Naming

By default, certificates are named using the pattern `Infisical-{certificateId}` where `{certificateId}` is the unique identifier of the certificate with hyphens removed for compatibility with services like Azure Key Vault.

### Custom Naming Schema

You can customize certificate naming by providing a **Certificate Name Schema** when creating or updating a Certificate Sync. The schema supports the following placeholders:

- `{{certificateId}}` - The unique certificate identifier (required)

**Examples:**

- `myapp-{{certificateId}}` → `myapp-abc123def456`
- `ssl/{{certificateId}}` → `ssl/abc123def456`

**Rules:**

- Must include exactly one `{{certificateId}}` placeholder
- Only alphanumeric characters, dashes (-), underscores (\_), and slashes (/) are allowed
- Certificate names matching your schema will be managed by Infisical during sync operations
