docs/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme.mdx, before:

---
title: "Certificate Enrollment via ACME"
sidebarTitle: "ACME"
---

## Concept

The ACME enrollment method allows Infisical to act as an ACME server. It lets you request and manage certificates against a specific [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) using the [ACME protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_Certificate_Management_Environment).
This method is suitable for web servers, load balancers, and other general-purpose servers that can run an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) for automated certificate management.

Infisical's ACME enrollment method is based on [RFC 8555](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555/).

## Prerequisites

Install an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) onto your server. This client will handle [ACME challenges](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/) and request/renew certificates from Infisical.

## Guide to Certificate Enrollment via ACME

In the following steps, we explore how to issue a X.509 certificate using the ACME enrollment method.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">
    Create a [certificate
    profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) with **ACME**
    selected as the enrollment method.

    ![pki acme config](/images/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme/acme-config.png)

  </Step>
  <Step title="Obtain the ACME configuration">
    Once you've created the certificate profile, you can obtain its ACME configuration details by clicking the **Reveal ACME EAB** option on the profile.
    
    ![pki acme eab config](/images/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme/acme-eab.png)

    From the ACME configuration, gather the following values:

    - ACME Directory URL: The URL that the ACME client will use to communicate with Infisical's ACME server.
    - EAB Key Identifier (KID): A unique identifier that tells Infisical which ACME account is making the request.
    - EAB Secret: A secret key that authenticates your ACME client with Infisical.

  </Step>
  <Step title="Configure your ACME client">
    Provide the **ACME Directory URL**, **EAB KID**, and **EAB Secret** from Step 2 to your ACME client to authenticate with Infisical and request a certificate.
    
    For example, if using [Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) as an ACME client, you can configure and start requesting certificates with the following command:

    ```bash
    sudo certbot certonly \
      --standalone \
      --server "https://your-infisical-instance.com/api/v1/pki/certificate-profiles/{profile-id}/acme/directory" \
      --eab-kid "your-eab-kid" \
      --eab-hmac-key "your-eab-secret" \
      -d example.infisical.com \
      --email admin@example.com \
      --agree-tos \
      --non-interactive
    ```

    Certbot stores the private key and resulting leaf certificate and full certificate chain in `/etc/letsencrypt/live/{domain-name}/`.

    For client-specific setup and usage instructions, refer to the documentation for your ACME client.

  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

add api and acme guides for cert-mgmt

docs/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme.mdx, after:

---
title: "Certificate Enrollment via ACME"
sidebarTitle: "ACME"
---

## Concept

The ACME enrollment method allows Infisical to act as an ACME server. It lets you request and manage certificates against a specific [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) using the [ACME protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_Certificate_Management_Environment).

This method is suitable for web servers, load balancers, and other general-purpose servers that can run an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) for automated certificate management;
it can also be used with [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) to issue and renew certificates for Kubernetes workloads through the [ACME issuer type](https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/).

Infisical's ACME enrollment method is based on [RFC 8555](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555/).

## Prerequisites

Install an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) onto your server. This client will handle [ACME challenges](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/) and request/renew certificates from Infisical.

## Guide to Certificate Enrollment via ACME

In the following steps, we explore how to issue a X.509 certificate using the ACME enrollment method.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">
    Create a [certificate
    profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) with **ACME**
    selected as the enrollment method.

    ![pki acme config](/images/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme/acme-config.png)

  </Step>
  <Step title="Obtain the ACME configuration">
    Once you've created the certificate profile, you can obtain its ACME configuration details by clicking the **Reveal ACME EAB** option on the profile.
    
    ![pki acme eab config](/images/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme/acme-eab.png)

    From the ACME configuration, gather the following values:

    - ACME Directory URL: The URL that the ACME client will use to communicate with Infisical's ACME server.
    - EAB Key Identifier (KID): A unique identifier that tells Infisical which ACME account is making the request.
    - EAB Secret: A secret key that authenticates your ACME client with Infisical.

  </Step>
  <Step title="Configure your ACME client">
    Provide the **ACME Directory URL**, **EAB KID**, and **EAB Secret** from Step 2 to your ACME client to authenticate with Infisical and request a certificate.
    
    For example, if using [Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) as an ACME client, you can configure and start requesting certificates with the following command:

    ```bash
    sudo certbot certonly \
      --standalone \
      --server "https://your-infisical-instance.com/api/v1/pki/certificate-profiles/{profile-id}/acme/directory" \
      --eab-kid "your-eab-kid" \
      --eab-hmac-key "your-eab-secret" \
      -d example.infisical.com \
      --email admin@example.com \
      --agree-tos \
      --non-interactive
    ```

    Certbot stores the private key and resulting leaf certificate and full certificate chain in `/etc/letsencrypt/live/{domain-name}/`.

    For client-specific setup and usage instructions, refer to the documentation for your ACME client.

  </Step>
</Steps>
