docs/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api.mdx, before:

---
title: "Certificate Enrollment via API"
sidebarTitle: "API"
---

## Concept

The API enrollment method allows you to issue certificates against a specific [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) over Web UI or by making an API request to Infisical.

## Guide to Certificate Enrollment via API

In the following steps, we explore how to issue a X.509 certificate using the API enrollment method.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Infisical UI">

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">
  Create a [certificate
    profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) with **API**
    selected as the enrollment method.

    Notice that the API enrollment method supports an option called **Enable Auto-Renewal By Default**.
    If selected, _eligible_ certificates are automatically considered for server-side auto-renewal based
    on a specified renewal days before expiration threshold at the time of issuance; for more information
    about server-side auto-renewal, refer to the documentation [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#guide-to-renewing-certificates).

  </Step>
  <Step title="Issue a certificate">
  To create a certificate, head to your Project > Certificates > Certificates and press **Issue**.
  
  ![pki certificates](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-issue.png)

Here, select the certificate profile from step 1 that will be used to issue the certificate and fill out the rest of the details for the certificate to be issued.

![pki certificate issue modal](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-issue-modal.png)

  </Step>
  <Step title="Download the certificate details">
  Once you have created the certificate from step 1, you'll be presented with the certificate details including the **Certificate Body**, **Certificate Chain**, and **Private Key**.
  
  ![pki certificate body](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-body.png)

    <Note>
      Make sure to download and store the **Private Key** in a secure location as it
      will only be displayed once at the time of certificate issuance. The
      **Certificate Body** and **Certificate Chain** will remain accessible and can
      be copied at any time.
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">

    To create a certificate [profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles), make an API request to the [Create Certificate Profile](/api-reference/endpoints/certificate-profiles/create) API endpoint.

    ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificate-profiles' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "projectId": "<project-id>",
          "caId": "<ca-id>",
          "certificateTemplateId": "<certificate-template-id>",
          "slug": "my-api-profile",
          "description": "Certificate profile for API enrollment",
          "enrollmentType": "API",
          "apiConfig": {
              "autoRenew": true,
              "renewBeforeDays": 7
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificateProfile": {
        "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
        "projectId": "65f0a4b0-c123-4567-8901-23456789abcd",
        "caId": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
        "certificateTemplateId": "660f1234-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440001",
        "slug": "my-api-profile",
        "description": "Certificate profile for API enrollment",
        "enrollmentType": "API",
        "apiConfigId": "770g2345-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440002",
        "createdAt": "2023-01-19T09:44:36.267Z",
        "updatedAt": "2023-01-19T09:44:36.267Z"
      }
    }
    ```

  </Step>
  <Step title="Issue a certificate">

    To issue a certificate against the certificate profile, make an API request to the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint.

    ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificates' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "profileId": "<certificate-profile-id>",
          "attributes": {
              "commonName": "service.acme.com",
              "ttl": "1y",
              "signatureAlgorithm": "RSA-SHA256",
              "keyAlgorithm": "RSA_2048",
              "keyUsages": ["digital_signature", "key_encipherment"],
              "extendedKeyUsages": ["server_auth"],
              "altNames": [
                  {
                      "type": "DNS",
                      "value": "service.acme.com"
                  },
                  {
                      "type": "DNS",
                      "value": "www.service.acme.com"
                  }
              ]
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificate": {
        "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "certificateChain": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "issuingCaCertificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "privateKey": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEvQIBADANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAASCBKcwggSjAgEAAoIBAQC...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----",
        "serialNumber": "123456789012345678",
        "certificateId": "880h3456-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440003"
      },
      "certificateRequestId": "..."
    }
    ```

    <Note>
      Make sure to store the `privateKey` as it is only returned once here at the time of certificate issuance. The `certificate` and `certificateChain` will remain accessible and can be retrieved at any time.
    </Note>

    If you have an external private key, you can also issue a certificate by making an API request containing a pem-encoded CSR (Certificate Signing Request) to the same [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint.

     ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificates' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "profileId": "<certificate-profile-id>",
          "csr": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----\nMIICvDCCAaQCAQAwdzELMAkGA1UEBhMCVVMxDTALBgNVBAgMBE9oaW8...\n-----END CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----",
          "attributes": {
              "ttl": "1y"
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificate": {
        "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "certificateChain": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "issuingCaCertificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "serialNumber": "123456789012345679",
        "certificateId": "990i4567-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440004"
      },
      "certificateRequestId": "..."
    }
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

update api enrollment docs to mention that certificate field can be null

docs/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api.mdx, after:

---
title: "Certificate Enrollment via API"
sidebarTitle: "API"
---

## Concept

The API enrollment method allows you to issue certificates against a specific [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) over Web UI or by making an API request to Infisical.

## Guide to Certificate Enrollment via API

In the following steps, we explore how to issue a X.509 certificate using the API enrollment method.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Infisical UI">

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">
  Create a [certificate
    profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles) with **API**
    selected as the enrollment method.

    Notice that the API enrollment method supports an option called **Enable Auto-Renewal By Default**.
    If selected, _eligible_ certificates are automatically considered for server-side auto-renewal based
    on a specified renewal days before expiration threshold at the time of issuance; for more information
    about server-side auto-renewal, refer to the documentation [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#guide-to-renewing-certificates).

  </Step>
  <Step title="Issue a certificate">
  To create a certificate, head to your Project > Certificates > Certificates and press **Issue**.
  
  ![pki certificates](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-issue.png)

Here, select the certificate profile from step 1 that will be used to issue the certificate and fill out the rest of the details for the certificate to be issued.

![pki certificate issue modal](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-issue-modal.png)

  </Step>
  <Step title="Download the certificate details">
  Once you have created the certificate from step 1, you'll be presented with the certificate details including the **Certificate Body**, **Certificate Chain**, and **Private Key**.
  
  ![pki certificate body](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-body.png)

    <Note>
      Make sure to download and store the **Private Key** in a secure location as it
      will only be displayed once at the time of certificate issuance. The
      **Certificate Body** and **Certificate Chain** will remain accessible and can
      be copied at any time.
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile in Infisical">

    To create a certificate [profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles), make an API request to the [Create Certificate Profile](/api-reference/endpoints/certificate-profiles/create) API endpoint.

    ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificate-profiles' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "projectId": "<project-id>",
          "caId": "<ca-id>",
          "certificateTemplateId": "<certificate-template-id>",
          "slug": "my-api-profile",
          "description": "Certificate profile for API enrollment",
          "enrollmentType": "API",
          "apiConfig": {
              "autoRenew": true,
              "renewBeforeDays": 7
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificateProfile": {
        "id": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
        "projectId": "65f0a4b0-c123-4567-8901-23456789abcd",
        "caId": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
        "certificateTemplateId": "660f1234-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440001",
        "slug": "my-api-profile",
        "description": "Certificate profile for API enrollment",
        "enrollmentType": "API",
        "apiConfigId": "770g2345-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440002",
        "createdAt": "2023-01-19T09:44:36.267Z",
        "updatedAt": "2023-01-19T09:44:36.267Z"
      }
    }
    ```

  </Step>
  <Step title="Issue a certificate">

    To issue a certificate against the certificate profile, make an API request to the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint.

    ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificates' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "profileId": "<certificate-profile-id>",
          "attributes": {
              "commonName": "service.acme.com",
              "ttl": "1y",
              "signatureAlgorithm": "RSA-SHA256",
              "keyAlgorithm": "RSA_2048",
              "keyUsages": ["digital_signature", "key_encipherment"],
              "extendedKeyUsages": ["server_auth"],
              "altNames": [
                  {
                      "type": "DNS",
                      "value": "service.acme.com"
                  },
                  {
                      "type": "DNS",
                      "value": "www.service.acme.com"
                  }
              ]
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificate": {
        "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "certificateChain": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "issuingCaCertificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "privateKey": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEvQIBADANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAASCBKcwggSjAgEAAoIBAQC...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----",
        "serialNumber": "123456789012345678",
        "certificateId": "880h3456-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440003"
      },
      "certificateRequestId": "..."
    }
    ```

    <Note>
      Note: If the certificate is available to be issued immediately, the `certificate` field in the response will contain the certificate data. If issuance is delayed (for example, due to pending approval or additional processing), the `certificate` field will be `null` and you can use the `certificateRequestId` to poll for status or retrieve the certificate when it is ready.

      Also be sure to store the `privateKey` as it is only returned once here at the time of certificate issuance. The `certificate` and `certificateChain` will remain accessible and can be retrieved at any time.

    </Note>

    If you have an external private key, you can also issue a certificate by making an API request containing a pem-encoded CSR (Certificate Signing Request) to the same [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint.

     ### Sample request

    ```bash Request
    curl --location --request POST 'https://app.infisical.com/api/v1/cert-manager/certificates' \
      --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access-token>' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
          "profileId": "<certificate-profile-id>",
          "csr": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----\nMIICvDCCAaQCAQAwdzELMAkGA1UEBhMCVVMxDTALBgNVBAgMBE9oaW8...\n-----END CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----",
          "attributes": {
              "ttl": "1y"
          }
      }'
    ```

    ### Sample response

    ```bash Response
    {
      "certificate": {
        "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "certificateChain": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "issuingCaCertificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIIEpDCCAowCCQD...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
        "serialNumber": "123456789012345679",
        "certificateId": "990i4567-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440004"
      },
      "certificateRequestId": "..."
    }
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>
