docs/documentation/platform/pki/guides/request-cert-api.mdx, before:

---
title: "Request a Certificate via API"
---

import RequestCertSetup from "/snippets/documentation/platform/pki/guides/request-cert-setup.mdx";

The [API enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api) lets clients programmatically request TLS and other X.509 certificates from Infisical.

## Diagram

The following sequence diagram illustrates the certificate issuance workflow for requesting a certificate via API from Infisical.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant Client as Client
  participant Infis as Infisical
  participant CA as CA<br/>(Internal or External)

  alt Issue Certificate
    Client->>Infis: POST /issue-certificate<br/>(profileId, subject/SANs, ttl,<br/>key usages, etc.)
  else Sign Certificate
    Client->>Infis: POST /sign-certificate<br/>(profileId, CSR, ttl)
  end

  Infis->>Infis: Look up certificate profile<br/>(by profileId)
  Infis->>Infis: Validate request or CSR<br/>against template constraints<br/>(CN/SAN rules, key usages, max TTL, etc.)

  alt Issue Certificate - Issuer Type = Self-Signed
    Infis->>Infis: Generate keypair<br/>and self-sign certificate
  else Issue/Sign Certificate - Issuer Type = Internal CA
    Infis->>CA: Request certificate issuance<br/>(CSR)
    CA-->>Infis: Signed certificate<br/>(+ chain)
  end

  Infis-->>Client: Return certificate, certificate chain,<br/>issuing CA certificate, serial number,<br/>certificate ID<br/>(and private key if server-generated)
```

## Guide

In the following steps, we explore an end-to-end workflow for requesting a certificate via API from Infisical.

<Steps>
  <RequestCertSetup />
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile">
    Next, follow the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles#guide-to-creating-a-certificate-profile) to create a [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles)
    that will be referenced when requesting a certificate.
    
    The certificate profile specifies which certificate template and issuing CA should be used to validate an incoming certificate request and issue a certificate;
    it also specifies the [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) for how certificates can be requested against this profile
    to begin with.
    
    You should specify the certificate template from Step 2, the issuing CA from Step 1, and the **API** option in the **Enrollment Method** dropdown when creating the certificate profile.

    <Note>
        Note that if you're looking to issue self-signed certificates, you should select the **Self-Signed** option in the **Issuer Type** dropdown when creating the certificate profile.
    </Note>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Request a certificate">
    Finally, follow the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api#guide-to-certificate-enrollment-via-api) to request a certificate against the certificate profile
    over the Web UI or by making an API request to either the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/issue-certificate) API endpoint or the [Sign Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/sign-certificate) API endpoint
    with a Certificate Signing Request (CSR).
    
    To renew a certificate on the client-side, you have two options:

    - Make a request to issue a new certificate against the same [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/issue-certificate) API endpoint.
    - Make a request to the [Renew Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/renew) API endpoint with the ID of the certificate you wish to renew. Note that this endpoint only works if the original certificate was issued through the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/issue-certificate) API endpoint.

    <Note>
        We recommend reading the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#guide-to-renewing-certificates) to learn more about all the ways to renew a certificate
        with Infisical including [server-driven certificate renewal](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#server-driven-certificate-renewal).
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>

Note that depending on your environment and infrastructure use-case, you may wish to use a different [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) to request certificates.

For more automated certificate management, you may wish to request certificates using a client that can monitor expiring certificates and request renewals for you.
For example, you can install the Infisical Agent on a VM and have it request and renew certificates for you or use an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) paired with Infisical's [ACME enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme).

Commit message:

add guide for requesting cert with infisical agent

docs/documentation/platform/pki/guides/request-cert-api.mdx, after:

---
title: "Request a Certificate via API"
---

import RequestCertSetup from "/snippets/documentation/platform/pki/guides/request-cert-setup.mdx";

The [API enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api) lets you programmatically request TLS and other X.509 certificates from Infisical.

This is the most flexible way to request certificates from Infisical but requires you to implement certificate request and renewal logic on your own.
For a more automated way to request certificates, we highly recommend you check out the guide for requesting certificates using the [Infisical Agent](/integrations/platforms/certificate-agent) [here](/documentation/platform/pki/guides/request-cert-agent).

## Diagram

The following sequence diagram illustrates the certificate issuance workflow for requesting a certificate via API from Infisical.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant Client as Client
  participant Infis as Infisical
  participant CA as CA<br/>(Internal or External)

  Client->>Infis: POST /certificate<br/>(profileId, conditional subject/SANs, ttl,<br/>key usages, conditional CSR, etc.)

  Infis->>Infis: Look up certificate profile<br/>(by profileId)
  Infis->>Infis: Validate request or CSR<br/>against profile constraints<br/>(CN/SAN rules, key usages, max TTL, etc.)

  alt Issuer Type = Self-Signed
    Infis->>Infis: Generate keypair<br/>and self-sign certificate
  else Issuer Type = CA
    Infis->>CA: Request certificate issuance<br/>(CSR)
    CA-->>Infis: Signed certificate<br/>(+ chain)
  end

  Infis-->>Client: Return certificate, certificate chain,<br/>issuing CA certificate, serial number,<br/>certificate ID<br/>(and private key if server-generated)
```

## Guide

In the following steps, we explore an end-to-end workflow for requesting a certificate via API from Infisical.

<Steps>
  <RequestCertSetup />
  <Step title="Create a certificate profile">
    Next, follow the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles#guide-to-creating-a-certificate-profile) to create a [certificate profile](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles)
    that will be referenced when requesting a certificate.
    
    The certificate profile specifies which certificate template and issuing CA should be used to validate an incoming certificate request and issue a certificate;
    it also specifies the [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) for how certificates can be requested against this profile
    to begin with.
    
    You should specify the certificate template from Step 2, the issuing CA from Step 1, and the **API** option in the **Enrollment Method** dropdown when creating the certificate profile.

    <Note>
        Note that if you're looking to issue self-signed certificates, you should select the **Self-Signed** option in the **Issuer Type** dropdown when creating the certificate profile.
    </Note>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Request a certificate">
    Finally, follow the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/api#guide-to-certificate-enrollment-via-api) to request a certificate against the certificate profile
    over the Web UI or by making an API request the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint with or without a certificate signing request (CSR).
    
    To renew a certificate on the client-side, you have two options:

    - Make a request to issue a new certificate against the same [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/create-certificate) API endpoint.
    - Make a request to the [Renew Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/renew) API endpoint with the ID of the certificate you wish to renew. Note that this endpoint only works if the original certificate was issued through the [Issue Certificate](/api-reference/endpoints/certificates/issue-certificate) API endpoint without a CSR.

    <Note>
        We recommend reading the guide [here](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#guide-to-renewing-certificates) to learn more about all the ways to renew a certificate
        with Infisical including [server-driven certificate renewal](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/certificates#server-driven-certificate-renewal).
    </Note>

  </Step>
</Steps>

Note that depending on your environment and infrastructure use-case, you may wish to use a different [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) to request certificates.

For more automated certificate management, you may wish to request certificates using a client that can monitor expiring certificates and request renewals for you.
For example, you can install the Infisical Agent on a VM and have it request and renew certificates for you or use an [ACME client](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) paired with Infisical's [ACME enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/acme).
