docs/integrations/platforms/ansible.mdx, before:

---
title: "Ansible"
description: "Learn how to use Infisical for secret management in Ansible."
---

You can find the Infisical Ansible collection on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/repo/published/infisical/vault/).

This Ansible Infisical collection includes a variety of Ansible content to help automate the management of Infisical services. This collection is maintained by the Infisical team.

## Ansible version compatibility
Tested with the Ansible Core >= 2.12.0 versions, and the current development version of Ansible. Ansible Core versions prior to 2.12.0 have not been tested.

## Python version compatibility
This collection depends on the Infisical SDK for Python.

Requires Python 3.7 or greater.

## Installing this collection
You can install the Infisical collection with the Ansible Galaxy CLI:

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install infisical.vault
```

The python module dependencies are not installed by ansible-galaxy. They can be manually installed using pip:

```bash
pip install infisicalsdk
```

## Using this collection

You can either call modules by their Fully Qualified Collection Name (FQCN), such as `infisical.vault.read_secrets`, or you can call modules by their short name if you list the `infisical.vault` collection in the playbook's collections keyword.

## Authentication

The Infisical Ansible Collection supports [Universal Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/universal-auth), [OIDC Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/oidc-auth/general), and [Token Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/token-auth) for authenticating against Infisical.

### Login Module (Recommended)

The recommended approach is to use the `login` module to authenticate once and reuse the credentials across multiple tasks. This reduces authentication overhead and makes playbooks cleaner. Alternatively, you can still pass credentials directly to each plugin/module if preferred.

```yaml
- name: Login to Infisical
  infisical.vault.login:
    url: "https://app.infisical.com"
    auth_method: universal_auth
    universal_auth_client_id: "{{ client_id }}"
    universal_auth_client_secret: "{{ client_secret }}"
  register: infisical_login

- name: Read secrets using cached login
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    as_dict: true
  register: secrets

- name: Use the secrets
  debug:
    msg: "Database URL is {{ secrets.secrets.DATABASE_URL }}"
```

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Universal Auth">
    Using Universal Auth for authentication is the most straight-forward way to get started with using the Ansible collection.

    To use Universal Auth, you need to provide the Client ID and Client Secret of your Infisical Machine Identity.

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with Universal Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: universal_auth
        universal_auth_client_id: "<client-id>"
        universal_auth_client_secret: "<client-secret>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method`, `universal_auth_client_id`, and `universal_auth_client_secret` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name                 | Environment Variable Name                |
    | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
    | `auth_method`                  | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`                  |
    | `universal_auth_client_id`     | `INFISICAL_UNIVERSAL_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`     |
    | `universal_auth_client_secret` | `INFISICAL_UNIVERSAL_AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` |
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="OIDC Auth">
    To use OIDC Auth, you'll need to provide the ID of your machine identity, and the OIDC JWT to be used for authentication.

    <Note>
      Please note that in order to use OIDC Auth, you must have `1.0.10` or newer of the `infisicalsdk` package installed.
    </Note>

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with OIDC Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: oidc_auth
        identity_id: "<identity-id>"
        jwt: "<oidc-jwt>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method`, `identity_id`, and `jwt` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name  | Environment Variable Name |
    | --------------- | ------------------------- |
    | auth_method     | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`   |
    | identity_id     | `INFISICAL_IDENTITY_ID`   |
    | jwt             | `INFISICAL_JWT`           |

  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Token Auth">
    Token Auth is the simplest authentication method that allows you to authenticate directly with an access token. This can be either a [Machine Identity Token Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/token-auth) token or a User JWT token.

    <Note>
      Please note that in order to use Token Auth, you must have `1.0.13` or newer of the `infisicalsdk` package installed.
    </Note>

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with Token Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: token_auth
        token: "<your-token>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method` and `token` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name | Environment Variable Name |
    | -------------- | ------------------------- |
    | auth_method    | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`   |
    | token          | `INFISICAL_TOKEN`         |

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Available Plugins and Modules

### Lookup Plugins
- `infisical.vault.login` - Authenticate and return reusable login data
- `infisical.vault.read_secrets` - Read secrets from Infisical

### Modules

**Authentication:**
- `infisical.vault.login` - Authenticate and return reusable login data

**Static Secrets:**
- `infisical.vault.read_secrets` - Read secrets from Infisical
- `infisical.vault.create_secret` - Create a new secret
- `infisical.vault.update_secret` - Update an existing secret
- `infisical.vault.delete_secret` - Delete a secret

**Dynamic Secrets:**
- `infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret` - Create a dynamic secret configuration
- `infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret` - Get a dynamic secret by name
- `infisical.vault.update_dynamic_secret` - Update a dynamic secret
- `infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret` - Delete a dynamic secret

**Dynamic Secret Leases:**
- `infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret_lease` - Create a lease (generates credentials)
- `infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret_lease` - Get lease details
- `infisical.vault.renew_dynamic_secret_lease` - Renew an existing lease
- `infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret_lease` - Delete/revoke a lease

## Examples

### Reading Secrets

```yaml
---
- name: Read secrets from Infisical
  hosts: localhost
  gather_facts: false

  tasks:
    - name: Login to Infisical
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: universal_auth
        universal_auth_client_id: "{{ lookup('env', 'INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID') }}"
        universal_auth_client_secret: "{{ lookup('env', 'INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET') }}"
      register: infisical_login

    - name: Read all secrets as dictionary
      infisical.vault.read_secrets:
        login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
        project_id: "your-project-id"
        env_slug: "dev"
        path: "/"
        as_dict: true
      register: secrets

    - name: Use the secrets
      debug:
        msg: "Database: {{ secrets.secrets.DATABASE_URL }}"
```

#### Reading secrets with full metadata

Use the `raw` option to retrieve complete secret metadata including version, creation time, tags, and more:

```yaml
- name: Read all secrets with full metadata
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "your-project-id"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    raw: true
  register: raw_secrets
  # Returns: [{"id": "...", "secretKey": "HOST", "secretValue": "google.com", "version": 1, "type": "shared", ...}, ...]

- name: Read all secrets with full metadata as dict
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "your-project-id"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    raw: true
    as_dict: true
  register: raw_secrets_dict
  # Returns: {"HOST": {"id": "...", "secretKey": "HOST", "secretValue": "google.com", "version": 1, ...}, ...}
```

#### Using the Lookup Plugin

The `read_secrets` lookup plugin allows for inline secret retrieval. Unlike modules that run on target hosts, lookup plugins run on the Ansible controller during playbook parsing. This is useful for retrieving secrets to use in variable definitions:

```yaml
vars:
  read_all_secrets_within_scope: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # [{ "key": "HOST", "value": "google.com" }, { "key": "SMTP", "value": "gmail.smtp.edu" }]

  read_all_secrets_as_dict: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', as_dict=True, universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # { "SECRET_KEY_1": "secret-value-1", "SECRET_KEY_2": "secret-value-2" } -> Can be accessed as secrets.SECRET_KEY_1

  read_secret_by_name_within_scope: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', secret_name='HOST', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # { "key": "HOST", "value": "google.com" }
```

### Managing Secrets (CRUD)

Create, update, and delete secrets programmatically:

```yaml
- name: Create a secret
  infisical.vault.create_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
    secret_value: "my-api-key"
    secret_comment: "API key for external service"
  register: created_secret

- name: Update a secret
  infisical.vault.update_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
    secret_value: "new-api-key"
  register: updated_secret

- name: Rename a secret
  infisical.vault.update_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "OLD_SECRET_NAME"
    new_secret_name: "NEW_SECRET_NAME"
  register: renamed_secret

- name: Delete a secret
  infisical.vault.delete_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
  register: deleted_secret
```

### Dynamic Secrets

Dynamic secrets generate credentials on-demand with automatic expiration. They support various providers like SQL databases, AWS, GCP, Azure, and more. For the full list of supported providers and their configuration options, see the [Dynamic Secrets documentation](/documentation/platform/dynamic-secrets/overview).

#### Creating a Dynamic Secret

```yaml
# Create a dynamic secret for PostgreSQL
- name: Create a PostgreSQL dynamic secret
  infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
    provider_type: "sql-database"
    inputs:
      client: "postgres"
      host: "localhost"
      port: 5432
      database: "mydb"
      username: "admin"
      password: "admin-password"
      creationStatement: "CREATE USER \"{{username}}\" WITH PASSWORD '{{password}}';"
      revocationStatement: "DROP USER \"{{username}}\";"
    default_ttl: "1h"
    max_ttl: "24h"
  register: dynamic_secret
```

<Note>
  For the full list of supported provider types and their input configurations, see the [Dynamic Secrets API Documentation](https://infisical.com/docs/api-reference/endpoints/dynamic-secrets/create#body-provider).
</Note>

#### Getting and Using Dynamic Secret Credentials

To use a dynamic secret, you need to create a **lease** which generates the actual credentials:

```yaml
# Create a lease to get database credentials
- name: Get database credentials
  infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    dynamic_secret_name: "postgres-dev"
    ttl: "30m"
  register: lease

# Use the generated credentials
- name: Connect to database
  community.postgresql.postgresql_query:
    login_host: localhost
    login_user: "{{ lease.data.DB_USERNAME }}"
    login_password: "{{ lease.data.DB_PASSWORD }}"
    db: mydb
    query: "SELECT version();"
```

#### Managing Leases

```yaml
# Get lease details
- name: Get lease information
  infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
  register: lease_details

# Renew a lease before it expires
- name: Renew a lease for 2 more hours
  infisical.vault.renew_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
    ttl: "2h"
  register: renewed_lease

# Revoke the credentials when done
- name: Delete the lease
  infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
```

#### Updating and Deleting Dynamic Secrets

```yaml
# Update a dynamic secret's TTL
- name: Update dynamic secret TTL
  infisical.vault.update_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
    default_ttl: "2h"
    max_ttl: "48h"
  register: updated_secret

# Delete a dynamic secret (also revokes all active leases)
- name: Delete a dynamic secret
  infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
  register: deleted_secret
```

## Troubleshoot

<Accordion title="I'm getting a error related to objc[72832]: +[__NSCFConstantString initialize]">
  If you get this Python error when you running the lookup plugin:

  ```
  objc[72832]: +[__NSCFConstantString initialize] may have been in progress in another thread when fork() was called. We cannot safely call it or ignore it in the fork() child process. Crashing instead. Set a breakpoint on objc_initializeAfterForkError to debug.
  Fatal Python error: Aborted
  ```

  You will need to add this to your shell environment or ansible wrapper script:

  ```
  export OBJC_DISABLE_INITIALIZE_FORK_SAFETY=YES
  ```
</Accordion>

Commit message:

docs(ansible): add LDAP authentication method to Ansible documentation

docs/integrations/platforms/ansible.mdx, after:

---
title: "Ansible"
description: "Learn how to use Infisical for secret management in Ansible."
---

You can find the Infisical Ansible collection on [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/ui/repo/published/infisical/vault/).

This Ansible Infisical collection includes a variety of Ansible content to help automate the management of Infisical services. This collection is maintained by the Infisical team.

## Ansible version compatibility
Tested with the Ansible Core >= 2.12.0 versions, and the current development version of Ansible. Ansible Core versions prior to 2.12.0 have not been tested.

## Python version compatibility
This collection depends on the Infisical SDK for Python.

Requires Python 3.7 or greater.

## Installing this collection
You can install the Infisical collection with the Ansible Galaxy CLI:

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install infisical.vault
```

The python module dependencies are not installed by ansible-galaxy. They can be manually installed using pip:

```bash
pip install infisicalsdk
```

## Using this collection

You can either call modules by their Fully Qualified Collection Name (FQCN), such as `infisical.vault.read_secrets`, or you can call modules by their short name if you list the `infisical.vault` collection in the playbook's collections keyword.

## Authentication

The Infisical Ansible Collection supports [Universal Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/universal-auth), [OIDC Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/oidc-auth/general), [LDAP Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/ldap-auth/general), and [Token Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/token-auth) for authenticating against Infisical.

### Login Module (Recommended)

The recommended approach is to use the `login` module to authenticate once and reuse the credentials across multiple tasks. This reduces authentication overhead and makes playbooks cleaner. Alternatively, you can still pass credentials directly to each plugin/module if preferred.

```yaml
- name: Login to Infisical
  infisical.vault.login:
    url: "https://app.infisical.com"
    auth_method: universal_auth
    universal_auth_client_id: "{{ client_id }}"
    universal_auth_client_secret: "{{ client_secret }}"
  register: infisical_login

- name: Read secrets using cached login
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    as_dict: true
  register: secrets

- name: Use the secrets
  debug:
    msg: "Database URL is {{ secrets.secrets.DATABASE_URL }}"
```

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Universal Auth">
    Using Universal Auth for authentication is the most straight-forward way to get started with using the Ansible collection.

    To use Universal Auth, you need to provide the Client ID and Client Secret of your Infisical Machine Identity.

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with Universal Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: universal_auth
        universal_auth_client_id: "<client-id>"
        universal_auth_client_secret: "<client-secret>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method`, `universal_auth_client_id`, and `universal_auth_client_secret` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name                 | Environment Variable Name                |
    | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
    | `auth_method`                  | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`                  |
    | `universal_auth_client_id`     | `INFISICAL_UNIVERSAL_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`     |
    | `universal_auth_client_secret` | `INFISICAL_UNIVERSAL_AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` |
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="OIDC Auth">
    To use OIDC Auth, you'll need to provide the ID of your machine identity, and the OIDC JWT to be used for authentication.

    <Note>
      Please note that in order to use OIDC Auth, you must have `1.0.10` or newer of the `infisicalsdk` package installed.
    </Note>

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with OIDC Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: oidc_auth
        identity_id: "<identity-id>"
        jwt: "<oidc-jwt>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method`, `identity_id`, and `jwt` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name  | Environment Variable Name |
    | --------------- | ------------------------- |
    | auth_method     | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`   |
    | identity_id     | `INFISICAL_IDENTITY_ID`   |
    | jwt             | `INFISICAL_JWT`           |

  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="LDAP Auth">
    LDAP Auth allows you to authenticate with Infisical using a machine identity configured with an LDAP directory. You need to provide the identity ID and your LDAP username and password.

    <Note>
      Please note that in order to use LDAP Auth, you must have `1.0.16` or newer of the `infisicalsdk` package installed.
    </Note>

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with LDAP Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: ldap_auth
        identity_id: "<identity-id>"
        username: "<ldap-username>"
        password: "<ldap-password>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method`, `identity_id`, `username`, and `password` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name | Environment Variable Name           |
    | -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
    | auth_method    | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`             |
    | identity_id    | `INFISICAL_IDENTITY_ID`             |
    | username       | `INFISICAL_LDAP_USERNAME`           |
    | password       | `INFISICAL_LDAP_PASSWORD`           |

  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Token Auth">
    Token Auth is the simplest authentication method that allows you to authenticate directly with an access token. This can be either a [Machine Identity Token Auth](/documentation/platform/identities/token-auth) token or a User JWT token.

    <Note>
      Please note that in order to use Token Auth, you must have `1.0.13` or newer of the `infisicalsdk` package installed.
    </Note>

    ```yaml
    - name: Login with Token Auth
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: token_auth
        token: "<your-token>"
      register: infisical_login
    ```

    You can also provide the `auth_method` and `token` parameters through environment variables:

    | Parameter Name | Environment Variable Name |
    | -------------- | ------------------------- |
    | auth_method    | `INFISICAL_AUTH_METHOD`   |
    | token          | `INFISICAL_TOKEN`         |

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Available Plugins and Modules

### Lookup Plugins
- `infisical.vault.login` - Authenticate and return reusable login data
- `infisical.vault.read_secrets` - Read secrets from Infisical

### Modules

**Authentication:**
- `infisical.vault.login` - Authenticate and return reusable login data

**Static Secrets:**
- `infisical.vault.read_secrets` - Read secrets from Infisical
- `infisical.vault.create_secret` - Create a new secret
- `infisical.vault.update_secret` - Update an existing secret
- `infisical.vault.delete_secret` - Delete a secret

**Dynamic Secrets:**
- `infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret` - Create a dynamic secret configuration
- `infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret` - Get a dynamic secret by name
- `infisical.vault.update_dynamic_secret` - Update a dynamic secret
- `infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret` - Delete a dynamic secret

**Dynamic Secret Leases:**
- `infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret_lease` - Create a lease (generates credentials)
- `infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret_lease` - Get lease details
- `infisical.vault.renew_dynamic_secret_lease` - Renew an existing lease
- `infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret_lease` - Delete/revoke a lease

## Examples

### Reading Secrets

```yaml
---
- name: Read secrets from Infisical
  hosts: localhost
  gather_facts: false

  tasks:
    - name: Login to Infisical
      infisical.vault.login:
        url: "https://app.infisical.com"
        auth_method: universal_auth
        universal_auth_client_id: "{{ lookup('env', 'INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID') }}"
        universal_auth_client_secret: "{{ lookup('env', 'INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET') }}"
      register: infisical_login

    - name: Read all secrets as dictionary
      infisical.vault.read_secrets:
        login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
        project_id: "your-project-id"
        env_slug: "dev"
        path: "/"
        as_dict: true
      register: secrets

    - name: Use the secrets
      debug:
        msg: "Database: {{ secrets.secrets.DATABASE_URL }}"
```

#### Reading secrets with full metadata

Use the `raw` option to retrieve complete secret metadata including version, creation time, tags, and more:

```yaml
- name: Read all secrets with full metadata
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "your-project-id"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    raw: true
  register: raw_secrets
  # Returns: [{"id": "...", "secretKey": "HOST", "secretValue": "google.com", "version": 1, "type": "shared", ...}, ...]

- name: Read all secrets with full metadata as dict
  infisical.vault.read_secrets:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "your-project-id"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    raw: true
    as_dict: true
  register: raw_secrets_dict
  # Returns: {"HOST": {"id": "...", "secretKey": "HOST", "secretValue": "google.com", "version": 1, ...}, ...}
```

#### Using the Lookup Plugin

The `read_secrets` lookup plugin allows for inline secret retrieval. Unlike modules that run on target hosts, lookup plugins run on the Ansible controller during playbook parsing. This is useful for retrieving secrets to use in variable definitions:

```yaml
vars:
  read_all_secrets_within_scope: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # [{ "key": "HOST", "value": "google.com" }, { "key": "SMTP", "value": "gmail.smtp.edu" }]

  read_all_secrets_as_dict: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', as_dict=True, universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # { "SECRET_KEY_1": "secret-value-1", "SECRET_KEY_2": "secret-value-2" } -> Can be accessed as secrets.SECRET_KEY_1

  read_secret_by_name_within_scope: "{{ lookup('infisical.vault.read_secrets', universal_auth_client_id='<>', universal_auth_client_secret='<>', project_id='<>', path='/', env_slug='dev', secret_name='HOST', url='https://app.infisical.com') }}"
  # { "key": "HOST", "value": "google.com" }
```

### Managing Secrets (CRUD)

Create, update, and delete secrets programmatically:

```yaml
- name: Create a secret
  infisical.vault.create_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
    secret_value: "my-api-key"
    secret_comment: "API key for external service"
  register: created_secret

- name: Update a secret
  infisical.vault.update_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
    secret_value: "new-api-key"
  register: updated_secret

- name: Rename a secret
  infisical.vault.update_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "OLD_SECRET_NAME"
    new_secret_name: "NEW_SECRET_NAME"
  register: renamed_secret

- name: Delete a secret
  infisical.vault.delete_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_id: "{{ project_id }}"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    secret_name: "API_KEY"
  register: deleted_secret
```

### Dynamic Secrets

Dynamic secrets generate credentials on-demand with automatic expiration. They support various providers like SQL databases, AWS, GCP, Azure, and more. For the full list of supported providers and their configuration options, see the [Dynamic Secrets documentation](/documentation/platform/dynamic-secrets/overview).

#### Creating a Dynamic Secret

```yaml
# Create a dynamic secret for PostgreSQL
- name: Create a PostgreSQL dynamic secret
  infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
    provider_type: "sql-database"
    inputs:
      client: "postgres"
      host: "localhost"
      port: 5432
      database: "mydb"
      username: "admin"
      password: "admin-password"
      creationStatement: "CREATE USER \"{{username}}\" WITH PASSWORD '{{password}}';"
      revocationStatement: "DROP USER \"{{username}}\";"
    default_ttl: "1h"
    max_ttl: "24h"
  register: dynamic_secret
```

<Note>
  For the full list of supported provider types and their input configurations, see the [Dynamic Secrets API Documentation](https://infisical.com/docs/api-reference/endpoints/dynamic-secrets/create#body-provider).
</Note>

#### Getting and Using Dynamic Secret Credentials

To use a dynamic secret, you need to create a **lease** which generates the actual credentials:

```yaml
# Create a lease to get database credentials
- name: Get database credentials
  infisical.vault.create_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    dynamic_secret_name: "postgres-dev"
    ttl: "30m"
  register: lease

# Use the generated credentials
- name: Connect to database
  community.postgresql.postgresql_query:
    login_host: localhost
    login_user: "{{ lease.data.DB_USERNAME }}"
    login_password: "{{ lease.data.DB_PASSWORD }}"
    db: mydb
    query: "SELECT version();"
```

#### Managing Leases

```yaml
# Get lease details
- name: Get lease information
  infisical.vault.get_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
  register: lease_details

# Renew a lease before it expires
- name: Renew a lease for 2 more hours
  infisical.vault.renew_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
    ttl: "2h"
  register: renewed_lease

# Revoke the credentials when done
- name: Delete the lease
  infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret_lease:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    lease_id: "{{ lease.lease.id }}"
```

#### Updating and Deleting Dynamic Secrets

```yaml
# Update a dynamic secret's TTL
- name: Update dynamic secret TTL
  infisical.vault.update_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
    default_ttl: "2h"
    max_ttl: "48h"
  register: updated_secret

# Delete a dynamic secret (also revokes all active leases)
- name: Delete a dynamic secret
  infisical.vault.delete_dynamic_secret:
    login_data: "{{ infisical_login.login_data }}"
    project_slug: "my-project"
    env_slug: "dev"
    path: "/"
    name: "postgres-dev"
  register: deleted_secret
```

## Troubleshoot

<Accordion title="I'm getting a error related to objc[72832]: +[__NSCFConstantString initialize]">
  If you get this Python error when you running the lookup plugin:

  ```
  objc[72832]: +[__NSCFConstantString initialize] may have been in progress in another thread when fork() was called. We cannot safely call it or ignore it in the fork() child process. Crashing instead. Set a breakpoint on objc_initializeAfterForkError to debug.
  Fatal Python error: Aborted
  ```

  You will need to add this to your shell environment or ansible wrapper script:

  ```
  export OBJC_DISABLE_INITIALIZE_FORK_SAFETY=YES
  ```
</Accordion>
