docs/documentation/platform/secret-rotation/windows-local-account.mdx, before:

---
title: "Windows Local Account Rotation"
description: "Learn how to automatically rotate Windows local account passwords using SMB."
---

<Note>
  **Rotation Type: [Single-Phase](/documentation/platform/secret-rotation/overview#single-phase-rotation)**

  This rotation updates a single credential set in place. Old credentials become invalid immediately upon rotation. This means that clients using the previous credentials will fail to authenticate until they retrieve the new credentials.

  This is a limitation of the rotation mechanism and cannot be rectified by Infisical.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- **Windows Server** with SMB3 support enabled
- Create an [SMB Connection](/integrations/app-connections/smb) with administrator credentials
- Ensure your network security policies allow SMB connections from Infisical to this rotation provider

<Accordion title="Open firewall on Windows Defender for SMB connection">
    Run the following PowerShell command as Administrator on the Windows server to allow inbound SMB connections:

    ```powershell
    New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow SMB Inbound" -Direction Inbound -Protocol TCP -LocalPort 445 -Action Allow
    ```

    To verify the rule was created:

    ```powershell
    Get-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow SMB Inbound"
    ```
</Accordion>

## Create a Windows Local Account Rotation in Infisical

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Infisical UI">
        1. Navigate to your Secret Manager Project's Dashboard and select **Add Secret Rotation** from the actions dropdown.
        ![Secret Manager Dashboard](/images/secret-rotations-v2/generic/add-secret-rotation.png)

        2. Select the **Windows Local Account** option.
        ![Select Windows Local Account](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/select-windows-local-account-option.png)

        3. Select the **SMB Connection** to use and configure the rotation behavior. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Configuration](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-configuration.png)

            - **SMB Connection** - the connection that will perform the rotation of the configured user's password.
            - **Rotation Interval** - the interval, in days, that once elapsed will trigger a rotation.
            - **Rotate At** - the local time of day when rotation should occur once the interval has elapsed.
            - **Auto-Rotation Enabled** - whether secrets should automatically be rotated once the rotation interval has elapsed. Disable this option to manually rotate secrets or pause secret rotation.
            <Note>
                Due to Windows Local Account Rotations rotating a single credential set, auto-rotation may result in service interruptions. If you need to ensure service continuity, we recommend disabling this option.
            </Note>


        4. Configure the required Parameters for your rotation. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Parameters](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-parameters.png)

        - **Rotation Method** - The method to use when rotating the target user's password.
            - **Login as Target** - Infisical will use the target user's current credentials to authenticate and rotate its own password. The target user must have administrator privileges on the Windows machine to be able to rotate its own password.
            - **Login as Root** - Infisical will use the administrator credentials provided in the SMB Connection to rotate the target user's password.
        - **Username** - The target Windows username whose password will be rotated.
        - **Current Password** - The current password of the target user (required when **Rotation Method** is set to **Login as Target**).
        - **Password Requirements** - The constraints to apply when generating new passwords.

        5. Specify the secret names that the Windows credentials should be mapped to. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Secrets Mapping](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-secrets-mapping.png)

            - **Username** - the name of the secret that the Windows username will be stored in.
            - **Password** - the name of the secret that the rotated password will be stored in.

        6. Give your rotation a name and description (optional). Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Details](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-details.png)

            - **Name** - the name of the secret rotation configuration. Must be slug-friendly.
            - **Description** (optional) - a description of this rotation configuration.

        7. Review your configuration, then click **Create Secret Rotation**.
        ![Rotation Review](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-confirm.png)

        8. Your **Windows Local Account** credentials are now available for use via the mapped secrets.
        ![Rotation Created](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-created.png)

        ### Reconcile Windows Local Account

        If you suspect the credentials are out of sync (for example, after a manual password change on the server), you can regain access by using **Reconcile**. This will use the configured Windows App Connection's administrator account to reset the target user's password and sync it with Infisical.

        ![Reconcile Option](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-reconcile.png)
        ![Reconcile Confirmation](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-reconcile-confirm.png)
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="API">
        To create a Windows Local Account Rotation, make an API request to the [Create Windows
        Local Account Rotation](/api-reference/endpoints/secret-rotations/windows-local-account/create) API endpoint.

        ### Sample request

        ```bash Request
        curl --request POST \
        --url https://us.infisical.com/api/v2/secret-rotations/windows-local-account \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        --data '{
            "name": "my-windows-rotation",
            "projectId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
            "description": "my windows local account rotation",
            "connectionId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
            "environment": "dev",
            "secretPath": "/",
            "isAutoRotationEnabled": false,
            "rotationInterval": 30,
            "rotateAtUtc": {
                "hours": 0,
                "minutes": 0
            },
            "parameters": {
                "rotationMethod": "login-as-root",
                "username": "appuser",
                "passwordRequirements": {
                    "length": 48,
                    "required": {
                        "digits": 2,
                        "lowercase": 2,
                        "uppercase": 2,
                        "symbols": 2
                    },
                    "allowedSymbols": "-_.~!*"
                }
            },
            "secretsMapping": {
                "username": "WINDOWS_USERNAME",
                "password": "WINDOWS_PASSWORD"
            }
        }'
        ```

        ### Sample response

        ```bash Response
        {
            "secretRotation": {
                "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "name": "my-windows-rotation",
                "description": "my windows local account rotation",
                "secretsMapping": {
                    "username": "WINDOWS_USERNAME",
                    "password": "WINDOWS_PASSWORD"
                },
                "isAutoRotationEnabled": false,
                "activeIndex": 0,
                "folderId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "connectionId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "createdAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "updatedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "rotationInterval": 30,
                "rotationStatus": "success",
                "lastRotationAttemptedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "lastRotatedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "lastRotationJobId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "nextRotationAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "connection": {
                    "app": "smb",
                    "name": "my-windows-connection",
                    "description": "SMB connection",
                    "credentials": {}
                },
                "folder": {
                    "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                    "name": "dev",
                    "path": "/"
                },
                "environment": {
                    "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                    "name": "Development",
                    "slug": "dev"
                },
                "parameters": {
                    "username": "appuser",
                    "rotationMethod": "login-as-root",
                    "passwordRequirements": {
                        "length": 48,
                        "required": {
                            "digits": 2,
                            "lowercase": 2,
                            "uppercase": 2,
                            "symbols": 2
                        },
                        "allowedSymbols": "-_.~!*"
                    }
                },
                "projectId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "rotateAtUtc": {
                    "hours": 0,
                    "minutes": 0
                },
                "secrets": [],
                "type": "windows-local-account"
            }
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: clarify prerequisites and details for Windows local account rotation and SMB connection

docs/documentation/platform/secret-rotation/windows-local-account.mdx, after:

---
title: "Windows Local Account Rotation"
description: "Learn how to automatically rotate Windows local account passwords using SMB."
---

<Note>
  **Rotation Type: [Single-Phase](/documentation/platform/secret-rotation/overview#single-phase-rotation)**

  This rotation updates a single credential set in place. Old credentials become invalid immediately upon rotation. This means that clients using the previous credentials will fail to authenticate until they retrieve the new credentials.

  This is a limitation of the rotation mechanism and cannot be rectified by Infisical.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- **Windows Server** with SMB3 support enabled (must be a member server or standalone machine, not a Domain Controller)
- Create an [SMB Connection](/integrations/app-connections/smb) with administrator credentials
- Ensure your network security policies allow SMB connections from Infisical to this rotation provider
- The target local account must exist on the Windows server before configuring the rotation

<Note>
  This rotation manages **local accounts** stored in the Windows machine's local SAM database. Domain Controllers do not have local accounts — if you need to manage accounts on a Domain Controller, those are domain accounts managed through Active Directory, which is not supported by this rotation type.
</Note>

<Accordion title="Open firewall on Windows Defender for SMB connection">
    Run the following PowerShell command as Administrator on the Windows server to allow inbound SMB connections:

    ```powershell
    New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow SMB Inbound" -Direction Inbound -Protocol TCP -LocalPort 445 -Action Allow
    ```

    To verify the rule was created:

    ```powershell
    Get-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Allow SMB Inbound"
    ```
</Accordion>

## Create a Windows Local Account Rotation in Infisical

<Tabs>
    <Tab title="Infisical UI">
        1. Navigate to your Secret Manager Project's Dashboard and select **Add Secret Rotation** from the actions dropdown.
        ![Secret Manager Dashboard](/images/secret-rotations-v2/generic/add-secret-rotation.png)

        2. Select the **Windows Local Account** option.
        ![Select Windows Local Account](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/select-windows-local-account-option.png)

        3. Select the **SMB Connection** to use and configure the rotation behavior. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Configuration](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-configuration.png)

            - **SMB Connection** - the connection that will perform the rotation of the configured user's password.
            - **Rotation Interval** - the interval, in days, that once elapsed will trigger a rotation.
            - **Rotate At** - the local time of day when rotation should occur once the interval has elapsed.
            - **Auto-Rotation Enabled** - whether secrets should automatically be rotated once the rotation interval has elapsed. Disable this option to manually rotate secrets or pause secret rotation.
            <Note>
                Due to Windows Local Account Rotations rotating a single credential set, auto-rotation may result in service interruptions. If you need to ensure service continuity, we recommend disabling this option.
            </Note>


        4. Configure the required Parameters for your rotation. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Parameters](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-parameters.png)

        - **Rotation Method** - The method to use when rotating the target user's password.
            - **Login as Target** - Infisical will use the target user's current credentials to authenticate and rotate its own password. The target user must have administrator privileges on the Windows machine to be able to rotate its own password.
            - **Login as Root** - Infisical will use the administrator credentials provided in the SMB Connection to rotate the target user's password.
        - **Username** - The target Windows username whose password will be rotated.
        - **Current Password** - The current password of the target user (required when **Rotation Method** is set to **Login as Target**).
        - **Password Requirements** - The constraints to apply when generating new passwords.

        5. Specify the secret names that the Windows credentials should be mapped to. Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Secrets Mapping](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-secrets-mapping.png)

            - **Username** - the name of the secret that the Windows username will be stored in.
            - **Password** - the name of the secret that the rotated password will be stored in.

        6. Give your rotation a name and description (optional). Then click **Next**.
        ![Rotation Details](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-details.png)

            - **Name** - the name of the secret rotation configuration. Must be slug-friendly.
            - **Description** (optional) - a description of this rotation configuration.

        7. Review your configuration, then click **Create Secret Rotation**.
        ![Rotation Review](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-confirm.png)

        8. Your **Windows Local Account** credentials are now available for use via the mapped secrets.
        ![Rotation Created](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-created.png)

        ### Reconcile Windows Local Account

        If you suspect the credentials are out of sync (for example, after a manual password change on the server), you can regain access by using **Reconcile**. This will use the configured Windows App Connection's administrator account to reset the target user's password and sync it with Infisical.

        ![Reconcile Option](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-reconcile.png)
        ![Reconcile Confirmation](/images/secret-rotations-v2/windows-local-account/windows-local-account-reconcile-confirm.png)
    </Tab>
    <Tab title="API">
        To create a Windows Local Account Rotation, make an API request to the [Create Windows
        Local Account Rotation](/api-reference/endpoints/secret-rotations/windows-local-account/create) API endpoint.

        ### Sample request

        ```bash Request
        curl --request POST \
        --url https://us.infisical.com/api/v2/secret-rotations/windows-local-account \
        --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        --data '{
            "name": "my-windows-rotation",
            "projectId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
            "description": "my windows local account rotation",
            "connectionId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
            "environment": "dev",
            "secretPath": "/",
            "isAutoRotationEnabled": false,
            "rotationInterval": 30,
            "rotateAtUtc": {
                "hours": 0,
                "minutes": 0
            },
            "parameters": {
                "rotationMethod": "login-as-root",
                "username": "appuser",
                "passwordRequirements": {
                    "length": 48,
                    "required": {
                        "digits": 2,
                        "lowercase": 2,
                        "uppercase": 2,
                        "symbols": 2
                    },
                    "allowedSymbols": "-_.~!*"
                }
            },
            "secretsMapping": {
                "username": "WINDOWS_USERNAME",
                "password": "WINDOWS_PASSWORD"
            }
        }'
        ```

        ### Sample response

        ```bash Response
        {
            "secretRotation": {
                "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "name": "my-windows-rotation",
                "description": "my windows local account rotation",
                "secretsMapping": {
                    "username": "WINDOWS_USERNAME",
                    "password": "WINDOWS_PASSWORD"
                },
                "isAutoRotationEnabled": false,
                "activeIndex": 0,
                "folderId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "connectionId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "createdAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "updatedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "rotationInterval": 30,
                "rotationStatus": "success",
                "lastRotationAttemptedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "lastRotatedAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "lastRotationJobId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "nextRotationAt": "2023-11-07T05:31:56Z",
                "connection": {
                    "app": "smb",
                    "name": "my-windows-connection",
                    "description": "SMB connection",
                    "credentials": {}
                },
                "folder": {
                    "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                    "name": "dev",
                    "path": "/"
                },
                "environment": {
                    "id": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                    "name": "Development",
                    "slug": "dev"
                },
                "parameters": {
                    "username": "appuser",
                    "rotationMethod": "login-as-root",
                    "passwordRequirements": {
                        "length": 48,
                        "required": {
                            "digits": 2,
                            "lowercase": 2,
                            "uppercase": 2,
                            "symbols": 2
                        },
                        "allowedSymbols": "-_.~!*"
                    }
                },
                "projectId": "3c90c3cc-0d44-4b50-8888-8dd25736052a",
                "rotateAtUtc": {
                    "hours": 0,
                    "minutes": 0
                },
                "secrets": [],
                "type": "windows-local-account"
            }
        }
        ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>
