docs/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles.mdx, before:

---
title: "Certificate Profiles"
sidebarTitle: "Profiles"
---

## Concept

A certificate profile is a configuration set specifying how leaf certificates should be issued for a group of end-entities including the [issuing CA](/documentation/platform/pki/ca/overview), a [certificate policy](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/policies), and the [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) (e.g. ACME, EST, API, etc.) used to enroll certificates.

You typically request certificates against a certificate profile through its associated enrollment method. Each method defines its own interaction flow which you can read more about in its respective documentation.

## Guide to Creating a Certificate Profile

To create a certificate profile, head to your Certificate Management Project > Certificates > Certificate Profiles and press **Create Profile**.

![pki certificate profile](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-profile.png)

![pki certificate profile modal](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-profile-modal.png)

Here's some guidance on each field:

- Name: A slug-friendly name for the profile such as `web-servers`.
- Description: An optional description for the profile.
- Issuer Type: The type of issuer that should be used to issue certificates for the profile; this can be either `Certificate Authority` or `Self-Signed`. If `Self-Signed` is selected, then the profile will only support the API enrollment method and be used to issue self-signed certificates over REST API.
- Issuing CA: The [issuing CA](/documentation/platform/pki/ca/overview) that should be used to issue certificates for the profile when the **Issuer Type** is set to `Certificate Authority`.
- Certificate Policy: The [certificate policy](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/policies) that should be used to validate certificate requests for the profile.
- Enrollment Method: The enrollment method that should be used to enroll certificates for the profile such as ACME, EST, API, etc.

Depending on which enrollment method you choose, you may be presented with additional enrollment-specific configuration fields.

Commit message:

Document default certificate TTL setting in profiles and update modal screenshot

docs/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/profiles.mdx, after:

---
title: "Certificate Profiles"
sidebarTitle: "Profiles"
---

## Concept

A certificate profile is a configuration set specifying how leaf certificates should be issued for a group of end-entities including the [issuing CA](/documentation/platform/pki/ca/overview), a [certificate policy](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/policies), and the [enrollment method](/documentation/platform/pki/enrollment-methods/overview) (e.g. ACME, EST, API, etc.) used to enroll certificates.

You typically request certificates against a certificate profile through its associated enrollment method. Each method defines its own interaction flow which you can read more about in its respective documentation.

## Guide to Creating a Certificate Profile

To create a certificate profile, head to your Certificate Management Project > Certificates > Certificate Profiles and press **Create Profile**.

![pki certificate profile](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-profile.png)

![pki certificate profile modal](/images/platform/pki/certificate/cert-profile-modal.png)

Here's some guidance on each field:

- Name: A slug-friendly name for the profile such as `web-servers`.
- Description: An optional description for the profile.
- Issuer Type: The type of issuer that should be used to issue certificates for the profile; this can be either `Certificate Authority` or `Self-Signed`. If `Self-Signed` is selected, then the profile will only support the API enrollment method and be used to issue self-signed certificates over REST API.
- Issuing CA: The [issuing CA](/documentation/platform/pki/ca/overview) that should be used to issue certificates for the profile when the **Issuer Type** is set to `Certificate Authority`.
- Certificate Policy: The [certificate policy](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/policies) that should be used to validate certificate requests for the profile.
- Enrollment Method: The enrollment method that should be used to enroll certificates for the profile such as ACME, EST, API, etc.
- Default Certificate TTL: An optional fallback validity period used when a TTL is not explicitly specified in the certificate request. The default TTL must not exceed the maximum validity defined in the associated [certificate policy](/documentation/platform/pki/certificates/policies).

Depending on which enrollment method you choose, you may be presented with additional enrollment-specific configuration fields.
