docs/documentation/platform/pki/alerting/webhook-alerts.mdx, before:

---
title: "Webhook Alerts"
sidebarTitle: "Webhook Alerts"
description: "Learn about webhook payload format and signature verification for PKI alerting"
---

This page covers the webhook payload format and signature verification for PKI certificate alerts. For general alerting setup, see the [Alerting Overview](/documentation/platform/pki/alerting/overview).

## Webhook Payload Format

Webhook notifications are sent as HTTP POST requests with a [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)-compliant JSON payload.

```json
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.infisical.pki.certificate.expiration",
  "source": "/projects/<project-id>/alerts/<alert-id>",
  "id": "<unique-event-id>",
  "time": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "subject": "certificate-expiration-alert",
  "data": {
    "alert": {
      "id": "<alert-id>",
      "name": "tls-expiry-alert",
      "alertBefore": "30d",
      "projectId": "<project-id>"
    },
    "certificates": [
      {
        "id": "<certificate-id>",
        "serialNumber": "1234567890",
        "commonName": "example.com",
        "san": ["example.com", "www.example.com"],
        "profileName": "TLS Server",
        "notBefore": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
        "notAfter": "2024-12-31T23:59:59.000Z",
        "status": "active",
        "daysUntilExpiry": 30
      }
    ],
    "metadata": {
      "totalCertificates": 1,
      "viewUrl": "https://app.infisical.com/cert-manager/<project-id>/policies"
    }
  }
}
```

## Webhook Signature Verification

If you configure a signing secret for your webhook channel, Infisical will include an `x-infisical-signature` header with each request. This allows you to verify that the webhook payload originated from Infisical.

The header format is:

```
x-infisical-signature: t=<timestamp>,v1=<signature>
```

Where:
- `<timestamp>` is the Unix timestamp (in milliseconds) when the signature was generated
- `v1` indicates the signature version
- `<signature>` is the HMAC-SHA256 signature of the payload

To verify the signature:

1. Extract the timestamp and signature from the header
2. Construct the signature payload by concatenating the timestamp, a period (`.`), and the raw request body: `{timestamp}.{body}`
3. Compute an HMAC-SHA256 hash using your signing secret
4. Compare the computed signature with the signature from the header

Example verification in Node.js:

```javascript
const crypto = require('crypto');

function verifyWebhookSignature(header, body, secret) {
  // Parse header format: t=<timestamp>,v1=<signature>
  const parts = header.split(',');
  const timestamp = parts[0].replace('t=', '');
  const signature = parts[1].replace('v1=', '');

  const signaturePayload = `${timestamp}.${body}`;
  const expectedSignature = crypto
    .createHmac('sha256', secret)
    .update(signaturePayload)
    .digest('hex');

  return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
    Buffer.from(signature),
    Buffer.from(expectedSignature)
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Add full alert creation flow to webhook and slack alert pages

docs/documentation/platform/pki/alerting/webhook-alerts.mdx, after:

---
title: "Webhook Alerts"
sidebarTitle: "Webhook Alerts"
description: "Learn how to set up webhook notifications for PKI certificate alerts"
---

Infisical can send PKI certificate alert notifications to a webhook URL. This guide walks through creating a webhook alert, the payload format, and how to verify webhook signatures.

## Guide to Creating a Webhook Alert

To create an alert, head to your Certificate Management Project > Alerting and press **Create Certificate Alert**.

![pki alerting](/images/platform/pki/alerting/alert-create.png)

![pki alerting modal](/images/platform/pki/alerting/alert-create-modal.png)

Here's some guidance for each field in the alert configuration sequence:

- **Alert Type**: The type of alert to create such as **Certificate Expiration**.
- **Alert Name**: A slug-friendly name for the alert such as `tls-expiry-alert`.
- **Description**: An optional description for the alert.
- **Alert Before**: The time before certificate expiration to trigger the alert such as 30 days denoted by `30d`.
- **Filters**: A list of filters that determine which certificates the alert applies to. Each row includes a **Field**, **Operator**, and **Value** to match against. For example, you can filter for certificates with a common name containing `example.com` by setting the field to **Common Name**, the operator to **Contains**, and the value to `example.com`.

Next, add a **Webhook** notification channel. The URL must use HTTPS. Optionally configure a signing secret to verify the authenticity of webhook payloads.

![pki alerting channels](/images/platform/pki/alerting/alert-create-channels.png)

## Webhook Payload Format

Webhook notifications are sent as HTTP POST requests with a [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)-compliant JSON payload.

```json
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.infisical.pki.certificate.expiration",
  "source": "/projects/<project-id>/alerts/<alert-id>",
  "id": "<unique-event-id>",
  "time": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "subject": "certificate-expiration-alert",
  "data": {
    "alert": {
      "id": "<alert-id>",
      "name": "tls-expiry-alert",
      "alertBefore": "30d",
      "projectId": "<project-id>"
    },
    "certificates": [
      {
        "id": "<certificate-id>",
        "serialNumber": "1234567890",
        "commonName": "example.com",
        "san": ["example.com", "www.example.com"],
        "profileName": "TLS Server",
        "notBefore": "2024-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
        "notAfter": "2024-12-31T23:59:59.000Z",
        "status": "active",
        "daysUntilExpiry": 30
      }
    ],
    "metadata": {
      "totalCertificates": 1,
      "viewUrl": "https://app.infisical.com/cert-manager/<project-id>/policies"
    }
  }
}
```

## Webhook Signature Verification

If you configure a signing secret for your webhook channel, Infisical will include an `x-infisical-signature` header with each request. This allows you to verify that the webhook payload originated from Infisical.

The header format is:

```
x-infisical-signature: t=<timestamp>,v1=<signature>
```

Where:
- `<timestamp>` is the Unix timestamp (in milliseconds) when the signature was generated
- `v1` indicates the signature version
- `<signature>` is the HMAC-SHA256 signature of the payload

To verify the signature:

1. Extract the timestamp and signature from the header
2. Construct the signature payload by concatenating the timestamp, a period (`.`), and the raw request body: `{timestamp}.{body}`
3. Compute an HMAC-SHA256 hash using your signing secret
4. Compare the computed signature with the signature from the header

Example verification in Node.js:

```javascript
const crypto = require('crypto');

function verifyWebhookSignature(header, body, secret) {
  // Parse header format: t=<timestamp>,v1=<signature>
  const parts = header.split(',');
  const timestamp = parts[0].replace('t=', '');
  const signature = parts[1].replace('v1=', '');

  const signaturePayload = `${timestamp}.${body}`;
  const expectedSignature = crypto
    .createHmac('sha256', secret)
    .update(signaturePayload)
    .digest('hex');

  return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
    Buffer.from(signature),
    Buffer.from(expectedSignature)
  );
}
```
