docs/self-hosting/deployment-options/kubernetes-helm.mdx, before:

---
title: "Kubernetes via Helm Chart"
description: "Learn how to use Helm chart to install Infisical on your Kubernetes cluster."
---

**Prerequisites**

- You have extensive understanding of [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
- Installed [Helm package manager](https://helm.sh/) version v3.11.3 or greater
- You have [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) installed and connected to your kubernetes cluster

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install Infisical Helm repository ">
    ```bash
    helm repo add infisical-helm-charts 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/infisical/helm-charts/helm/charts/' 
    ```
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Add Helm values">
    Create a `values.yaml` file. This will be used to configure settings for the Infisical Helm chart.
    To explore all configurable properties for your values file, [visit this page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Infisical/infisical/main/helm-charts/infisical-standalone-postgres/values.yaml).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Select Infisical version">
    By default, the Infisical version set in your helm chart will likely be outdated. 
    Choose the latest Infisical docker image tag from [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/infisical/infisical/tags).
    

    ```yaml values.yaml
    infisical:
      image:
        repository: infisical/infisical
        tag: "<>" #<-- select tag from Dockerhub from the above link
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    ```
    <Warning>
      Do not use the latest docker image tag in production deployments as they can introduce unexpected changes
    </Warning>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure environment variables">

    To deploy this Helm chart, a Kubernetes secret named `infisical-secrets` must be present in the same namespace where the chart is being deployed.

    For a minimal installation of Infisical, you need to configure `ENCRYPTION_KEY`, `AUTH_SECRET`, `DB_CONNECTION_URI`, `SITE_URL`, and `REDIS_URL`. [Learn more about configuration settings](/self-hosting/configuration/envars).


    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Proof of concept deployment">
        For test or proof-of-concept purposes, you may omit `DB_CONNECTION_URI` and `REDIS_URL` from `infisical-secrets`. This is because the Helm chart will automatically provision and connect to the in-cluster instances of Postgres and Redis by default.
        ```yaml simple-values-example.yaml 
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: infisical-secrets
        type: Opaque
        stringData:
          AUTH_SECRET: <>
          ENCRYPTION_KEY: <>
          SITE_URL: <>
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Production deployment">
        For production environments, we recommend using Cloud-based Platform as a Service (PaaS) solutions for PostgreSQL and Redis to ensure high availability. In on-premise setups, it's recommended to configure Redis and Postgres for high availability, either by using Bitnami charts or a custom configuration.

        ```yaml simple-values-example.yaml 
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: infisical-secrets
        type: Opaque
        stringData:
          AUTH_SECRET: <>
          ENCRYPTION_KEY: <>
          REDIS_URL: <>
          DB_CONNECTION_URI: <>
          SITE_URL: <>
        ```

        <Tip>
          If you need to configure the SSL certificate for your production Postgres instance, you can use the `DB_ROOT_CERT` environment variable. [Learn more about configuring the SSL certificate](/self-hosting/configuration/envars#aws-rds).
        </Tip>
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Routing traffic to Infisical">
    By default, this chart uses Nginx as its Ingress controller to direct traffic to Infisical services.

    ```yaml values.yaml 
    ingress:
      nginx:
        enabled: true 
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Helm chart ">
    Once you are done configuring your `values.yaml` file, run the command below.

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install infisical infisical-helm-charts/infisical-standalone --values /path/to/values.yaml
    ```

    <Accordion title="Full helm values example">
      ```yaml values.yaml
      # -- Overrides the default release name
      nameOverride: ""

      # -- Overrides the full name of the release, affecting resource names
      fullnameOverride: ""

      infisical:
        # -- Enable Infisical chart deployment
        enabled: true
        # -- Sets the name of the deployment within this chart
        name: infisical

        autoBootstrap:
          # -- Enable auto-bootstrap of the Infisical instance
          enabled: false

          image:
            # -- Infisical Infisical CLI image tag version
            tag: "0.41.86"

          # -- Template for the data/stringData section of the Kubernetes secret. Available functions: encodeBase64
          secretTemplate: '{"data":{"token":"{{.Identity.Credentials.Token}}"}}'

          secretDestination:
            # -- Name of the bootstrap secret to create in the Kubernetes cluster which will store the formatted root identity credentials
            name: "infisical-bootstrap-secret"

            # -- Namespace to create the bootstrap secret in. If not provided, the secret will be created in the same namespace as the release.
            namespace: "default"

          # -- Infisical organization to create in the Infisical instance during auto-bootstrap
          organization: "default-org"

          credentialSecret:
            # -- Name of the Kubernetes secret containing the credentials for the auto-bootstrap workflow
            name: "infisical-bootstrap-credentials"

        databaseSchemaMigrationJob:
          image:
            # -- Image repository for migration wait job
            repository: ghcr.io/groundnuty/k8s-wait-for
            # -- Image tag version
            tag: no-root-v2.0
            # -- Pulls image only if not present on the node
            pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

        serviceAccount:
          # -- Creates a new service account if true, with necessary permissions for this chart. If false and `serviceAccount.name` is not defined, the chart will attempt to use the Default service account
          create: true
          # -- Custom annotations for the auto-created service account
          annotations: {}
          # -- Optional custom service account name, if existing service account is used
          name: null

        # -- Override for the full name of Infisical resources in this deployment
        fullnameOverride: ""
        # -- Custom annotations for Infisical pods
        podAnnotations: {}
        # -- Custom annotations for Infisical deployment
        deploymentAnnotations: {}
        # -- Number of pod replicas for high availability
        replicaCount: 2

        image:
          # -- Image repository for the Infisical service
          repository: infisical/infisical
          # -- Specific version tag of the Infisical image. View the latest version here https://hub.docker.com/r/infisical/infisical
          tag: "v0.151.0"
          # -- Pulls image only if not already present on the node
          pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          # -- Secret references for pulling the image, if needed
          imagePullSecrets: []

        # -- Node affinity settings for pod placement
        affinity: {}
        # -- Tolerations definitions
        tolerations: []
        # -- Node selector for pod placement
        nodeSelector: {}
        # -- Topology spread constraints for multi-zone deployments
        # -- Ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-topology-spread-constraints/
        topologySpreadConstraints: []

        # -- Kubernetes Secret reference containing Infisical root credentials
        kubeSecretRef: "infisical-secrets"

        service:
          # -- Custom annotations for Infisical service
          annotations: {}
          # -- Service type, can be changed based on exposure needs (e.g., LoadBalancer)
          type: ClusterIP
          # -- Optional node port for service when using NodePort type
          nodePort: ""

        resources:
          limits:
            # -- Memory limit for Infisical container
            memory: 1000Mi
          requests:
            # -- CPU request for Infisical container
            cpu: 350m

      ingress:
        # -- Enable or disable ingress configuration
        enabled: true
        # -- Hostname for ingress access, e.g., app.example.com
        hostName: ""
        # -- Specifies the ingress class, useful for multi-ingress setups
        ingressClassName: nginx

        nginx:
          # -- Enable NGINX-specific settings, if using NGINX ingress controller
          enabled: true

        # -- Custom annotations for ingress resource
        annotations: {}
        # -- TLS settings for HTTPS access
        tls: []
          # -- TLS secret name for HTTPS
          # - secretName: letsencrypt-prod
          # -- Domain name to associate with the TLS certificate
          #   hosts:
          #     - some.domain.com

      postgresql:
        # -- Enables an in-cluster PostgreSQL deployment. To achieve HA for Postgres, we recommend deploying https://github.com/zalando/postgres-operator instead.
        enabled: true
        # -- PostgreSQL resource name
        name: "postgresql"
        # -- Full name override for PostgreSQL resources
        fullnameOverride: "postgresql"

        image:
          # -- Image registry for PostgreSQL
          registry: mirror.gcr.io
          # -- Image repository for PostgreSQL
          repository: bitnamilegacy/postgresql

        auth:
          # -- Database username for PostgreSQL
          username: infisical
          # -- Password for PostgreSQL database access
          password: root
          # -- Database name for Infisical
          database: infisicalDB

        useExistingPostgresSecret:
          # -- Set to true if using an existing Kubernetes secret that contains PostgreSQL connection string
          enabled: false
          existingConnectionStringSecret:
            # -- Kubernetes secret name containing the PostgreSQL connection string
            name: ""
            # -- Key name in the Kubernetes secret that holds the connection string
            key: ""

      redis:
        # -- Enables an in-cluster Redis deployment
        enabled: true
        # -- Redis resource name
        name: "redis"
        # -- Full name override for Redis resources
        fullnameOverride: "redis"

        image:
          # -- Image registry for Redis
          registry: mirror.gcr.io
          # -- Image repository for Redis
          repository: bitnamilegacy/redis

        cluster:
          # -- Clustered Redis deployment
          enabled: false

        # -- Requires a password for Redis authentication
        usePassword: true

        auth:
          # -- Redis password
          password: "mysecretpassword"

        # -- Redis deployment type (e.g., standalone or cluster)
        architecture: standalone

      ```
      </Accordion>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Access Infisical">
    After deployment, please wait for 2-5 minutes for all pods to reach a running state. Once a significant number of pods are operational, access the IP address revealed through Ingress by your load balancer. 
    You can find the IP address/hostname by executing the command `kubectl get ingress`.
    ![infisical-selfhost](/images/self-hosting/applicable-to-all/selfhost-signup.png)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Upgrade your instance">
    To upgrade your instance of Infisical simply update the docker image tag in your Helm values and rerun the command below.

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install infisical infisical-helm-charts/infisical-standalone --values /path/to/values.yaml
    ```

    <Tip>
      Always back up your database before each upgrade, especially in a production environment.
    </Tip>

  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

Added gateway api docs on docs/self-hosting/deployment-options/kubernetes-helm.mdx

docs/self-hosting/deployment-options/kubernetes-helm.mdx, after:

---
title: "Kubernetes via Helm Chart"
description: "Learn how to use Helm chart to install Infisical on your Kubernetes cluster."
---

**Prerequisites**

- You have extensive understanding of [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/)
- Installed [Helm package manager](https://helm.sh/) version v3.11.3 or greater
- You have [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) installed and connected to your kubernetes cluster

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install Infisical Helm repository ">
    ```bash
    helm repo add infisical-helm-charts 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/infisical/helm-charts/helm/charts/' 
    ```
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
  </Step>
  <Step title="Add Helm values">
    Create a `values.yaml` file. This will be used to configure settings for the Infisical Helm chart.
    To explore all configurable properties for your values file, [visit this page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Infisical/infisical/main/helm-charts/infisical-standalone-postgres/values.yaml).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Select Infisical version">
    By default, the Infisical version set in your helm chart will likely be outdated. 
    Choose the latest Infisical docker image tag from [here](https://hub.docker.com/r/infisical/infisical/tags).
    

    ```yaml values.yaml
    infisical:
      image:
        repository: infisical/infisical
        tag: "<>" #<-- select tag from Dockerhub from the above link
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    ```
    <Warning>
      Do not use the latest docker image tag in production deployments as they can introduce unexpected changes
    </Warning>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure environment variables">

    To deploy this Helm chart, a Kubernetes secret named `infisical-secrets` must be present in the same namespace where the chart is being deployed.

    For a minimal installation of Infisical, you need to configure `ENCRYPTION_KEY`, `AUTH_SECRET`, `DB_CONNECTION_URI`, `SITE_URL`, and `REDIS_URL`. [Learn more about configuration settings](/self-hosting/configuration/envars).


    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Proof of concept deployment">
        For test or proof-of-concept purposes, you may omit `DB_CONNECTION_URI` and `REDIS_URL` from `infisical-secrets`. This is because the Helm chart will automatically provision and connect to the in-cluster instances of Postgres and Redis by default.
        ```yaml simple-values-example.yaml 
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: infisical-secrets
        type: Opaque
        stringData:
          AUTH_SECRET: <>
          ENCRYPTION_KEY: <>
          SITE_URL: <>
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Production deployment">
        For production environments, we recommend using Cloud-based Platform as a Service (PaaS) solutions for PostgreSQL and Redis to ensure high availability. In on-premise setups, it's recommended to configure Redis and Postgres for high availability, either by using Bitnami charts or a custom configuration.

        ```yaml simple-values-example.yaml 
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Secret
        metadata:
          name: infisical-secrets
        type: Opaque
        stringData:
          AUTH_SECRET: <>
          ENCRYPTION_KEY: <>
          REDIS_URL: <>
          DB_CONNECTION_URI: <>
          SITE_URL: <>
        ```

        <Tip>
          If you need to configure the SSL certificate for your production Postgres instance, you can use the `DB_ROOT_CERT` environment variable. [Learn more about configuring the SSL certificate](/self-hosting/configuration/envars#aws-rds).
        </Tip>
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Routing traffic to Infisical">
    By default, this chart uses Nginx as its Ingress controller to direct traffic to Infisical services.

    ```yaml values.yaml 
    ingress:
      enabled: true
      nginx:
        enabled: true 
    ```

    As an alternative, this chart also supports the Kubernetes Gateway API with HTTPRoute. NGINX is the default Gateway API implementation used to route traffic to Infisical services.

    ```yaml values.yaml
    ingress:
      enabled: false

    gateway:
      enabled: true
      gatewayClassName: nginx
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Install the Helm chart ">
    Once you are done configuring your `values.yaml` file, run the command below.

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install infisical infisical-helm-charts/infisical-standalone --values /path/to/values.yaml
    ```

    <Accordion title="Full helm values example">
      ```yaml values.yaml
      # -- Overrides the default release name
      nameOverride: ""

      # -- Overrides the full name of the release, affecting resource names
      fullnameOverride: ""

      infisical:
        # -- Enable Infisical chart deployment
        enabled: true
        # -- Sets the name of the deployment within this chart
        name: infisical

        autoBootstrap:
          # -- Enable auto-bootstrap of the Infisical instance
          enabled: false

          image:
            # -- Infisical Infisical CLI image tag version
            tag: "0.41.86"

          # -- Template for the data/stringData section of the Kubernetes secret. Available functions: encodeBase64
          secretTemplate: '{"data":{"token":"{{.Identity.Credentials.Token}}"}}'

          secretDestination:
            # -- Name of the bootstrap secret to create in the Kubernetes cluster which will store the formatted root identity credentials
            name: "infisical-bootstrap-secret"

            # -- Namespace to create the bootstrap secret in. If not provided, the secret will be created in the same namespace as the release.
            namespace: "default"

          # -- Infisical organization to create in the Infisical instance during auto-bootstrap
          organization: "default-org"

          credentialSecret:
            # -- Name of the Kubernetes secret containing the credentials for the auto-bootstrap workflow
            name: "infisical-bootstrap-credentials"

        databaseSchemaMigrationJob:
          image:
            # -- Image repository for migration wait job
            repository: ghcr.io/groundnuty/k8s-wait-for
            # -- Image tag version
            tag: no-root-v2.0
            # -- Pulls image only if not present on the node
            pullPolicy: IfNotPresent

        serviceAccount:
          # -- Creates a new service account if true, with necessary permissions for this chart. If false and `serviceAccount.name` is not defined, the chart will attempt to use the Default service account
          create: true
          # -- Custom annotations for the auto-created service account
          annotations: {}
          # -- Optional custom service account name, if existing service account is used
          name: null

        # -- Override for the full name of Infisical resources in this deployment
        fullnameOverride: ""
        # -- Custom annotations for Infisical pods
        podAnnotations: {}
        # -- Custom annotations for Infisical deployment
        deploymentAnnotations: {}
        # -- Number of pod replicas for high availability
        replicaCount: 2

        image:
          # -- Image repository for the Infisical service
          repository: infisical/infisical
          # -- Specific version tag of the Infisical image. View the latest version here https://hub.docker.com/r/infisical/infisical
          tag: "v0.151.0"
          # -- Pulls image only if not already present on the node
          pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          # -- Secret references for pulling the image, if needed
          imagePullSecrets: []

        # -- Node affinity settings for pod placement
        affinity: {}
        # -- Tolerations definitions
        tolerations: []
        # -- Node selector for pod placement
        nodeSelector: {}
        # -- Topology spread constraints for multi-zone deployments
        # -- Ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-topology-spread-constraints/
        topologySpreadConstraints: []

        # -- Kubernetes Secret reference containing Infisical root credentials
        kubeSecretRef: "infisical-secrets"

        service:
          # -- Custom annotations for Infisical service
          annotations: {}
          # -- Service type, can be changed based on exposure needs (e.g., LoadBalancer)
          type: ClusterIP
          # -- Optional node port for service when using NodePort type
          nodePort: ""

        resources:
          limits:
            # -- Memory limit for Infisical container
            memory: 1000Mi
          requests:
            # -- CPU request for Infisical container
            cpu: 350m

      ingress:
        # -- Enable or disable ingress configuration
        enabled: true
        # -- Hostname for ingress access, e.g., app.example.com
        hostName: ""
        # -- Specifies the ingress class, useful for multi-ingress setups
        ingressClassName: nginx

        nginx:
          # -- Enable NGINX-specific settings, if using NGINX ingress controller
          enabled: true

        # -- Custom annotations for ingress resource
        annotations: {}
        # -- TLS settings for HTTPS access
        tls: []
          # -- TLS secret name for HTTPS
          # - secretName: letsencrypt-prod
          # -- Domain name to associate with the TLS certificate
          #   hosts:
          #     - some.domain.com

      postgresql:
        # -- Enables an in-cluster PostgreSQL deployment. To achieve HA for Postgres, we recommend deploying https://github.com/zalando/postgres-operator instead.
        enabled: true
        # -- PostgreSQL resource name
        name: "postgresql"
        # -- Full name override for PostgreSQL resources
        fullnameOverride: "postgresql"

        image:
          # -- Image registry for PostgreSQL
          registry: mirror.gcr.io
          # -- Image repository for PostgreSQL
          repository: bitnamilegacy/postgresql

        auth:
          # -- Database username for PostgreSQL
          username: infisical
          # -- Password for PostgreSQL database access
          password: root
          # -- Database name for Infisical
          database: infisicalDB

        useExistingPostgresSecret:
          # -- Set to true if using an existing Kubernetes secret that contains PostgreSQL connection string
          enabled: false
          existingConnectionStringSecret:
            # -- Kubernetes secret name containing the PostgreSQL connection string
            name: ""
            # -- Key name in the Kubernetes secret that holds the connection string
            key: ""

      redis:
        # -- Enables an in-cluster Redis deployment
        enabled: true
        # -- Redis resource name
        name: "redis"
        # -- Full name override for Redis resources
        fullnameOverride: "redis"

        image:
          # -- Image registry for Redis
          registry: mirror.gcr.io
          # -- Image repository for Redis
          repository: bitnamilegacy/redis

        cluster:
          # -- Clustered Redis deployment
          enabled: false

        # -- Requires a password for Redis authentication
        usePassword: true

        auth:
          # -- Redis password
          password: "mysecretpassword"

        # -- Redis deployment type (e.g., standalone or cluster)
        architecture: standalone

      ```
      </Accordion>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Access Infisical">
    After deployment, please wait for 2-5 minutes for all pods to reach a running state. Once a significant number of pods are operational, access the IP address revealed through Ingress by your load balancer. 
    You can find the IP address/hostname by executing the command `kubectl get ingress` or `kubectl get gateway` depending on your configuration.
    ![infisical-selfhost](/images/self-hosting/applicable-to-all/selfhost-signup.png)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Upgrade your instance">
    To upgrade your instance of Infisical simply update the docker image tag in your Helm values and rerun the command below.

    ```bash
    helm upgrade --install infisical infisical-helm-charts/infisical-standalone --values /path/to/values.yaml
    ```

    <Tip>
      Always back up your database before each upgrade, especially in a production environment.
    </Tip>

  </Step>
</Steps>
